1: It can be very interesting to listen to the radio. (Begin: Listening…)
a: Listening to the radio can be very interesting.
2: Start now or you will not arrive in time. (Begin: You…)
a: You should start now otherwise you will not arrive in time.
a: You should start now or else you will not arrive in time.
a: You will not arrive in time if you do not start now.
a: You will not arrive in time unless you start now.
3: In your place, I would ask for a better reward. (Begin: If…)
a: If I were you, I would ask for a better reward.
4: He tried harder and harder but achieved less and less. (Begin: The…)
a: The harder he tried, the less he achieved.
5: The bag was so heavy that it could not be carried. ( Use: too
a: The bag was too heavy to be carried.
6: Your answers need correcting. ( Use: corrected)
a: Your answers need to be corrected.
7: Very few people are as honest as Mrs. Jacob. ( Use: most)
a: Mrs. Jacob is one of the most honest people.
8: As soon as they write the exam, they start discussing the answers. (Begin: No ….)
a: No sooner do they write the exam than they start discussing the answers.
9: If you had not advised me, I would have been deceived. (Begin: But…)
a: But for your advice, I would have been deceived.
10: The sudden knock startled her. ( Change the voice)
a: She was startled by the sudden knock.
11: As I frowned harder and harder, he smiled more and more broadly. [Begin: The harder….]
a: The harder I frowned, the more broadly he smiled.
12: This place is the best place to observe the elephants. [Use: better]
a: This place is better than any other place to observe the elephants.
13: How exhilarating it was to see the rainbow! [Begin: It...]
a: It was exhilarating to see the rainbow.
14: It was very exhilirating to see the rainbow.
a: From radios came the report that the war was over. [Begin: radios…]
15: Radios reported that the war was over.
a: I asked her whether she thought that I was boring. [Change into Direct Speech]
16: I asked her, “Do you think that I am boring?”
a: The student said, “I shall work hard.” [Change into reported speech]
17: The student said that he would work hard.
a: This is the last time you will ever sit in this cinema. [Begin: Never...]
18: Never again will you sit in this cinema.
a: A senseless man repeats his mistakes. [Rewrite using ‘sensible’.]
19: A sensible man does not repeat his mistakes.
a: She is so weak that she cannot walk by herself [Rewrite using ‘too...]
20: She is too weak to walk by herself.
a: They finished their work. They went home. [Begin: No sooner…]
21: No sooner did they finish their work than they went home.
a: No sooner had they finished their work than they went home.
22: Raju got a bad cough because he started smoking cigarettes. [Begin: If…] 
a: If Raju had not started smoking, he would not have got a bad cough.
23: Ben regretted asking Sunil to lend him his shoes. [Begin: Ben wished…]
a: Ben wished that he had not asked Sunil to lent him his shoes.
24: This furniture is so old that it is not worth keeping. [Use: too]
a: This furniture is too old to keep.
25: I am invited. [Provide a question tag]
a: I am invited, aren’t I?
26: “You should eat regularly, Mr.Kapoor,” the doctor said, “ if you want to be healthy.” [Begin: The doctor advised…]
a: The doctor advised Mr.Kapoor to eat regularly if he wanted to be healthy.
27: He is poor, still he is happy. [ Begin: Despite…] 
a: Despite being poor, he is happy.
a: Despite his poverty, he is happy.
28: It was stupid of me to forget his name. [ Change into an exclamation.] 
a: How stupid of me to forget his name!
29: He will be elected Secretary by the group. {Change the voice.]
a: The group will elect him the Secretary.
30: Australia is the largest island in the world. [Begin: No other….] 
a: No other island in the world is as large as Australia.
31: “How beautiful the sunset looks tonight,” Neelam exclaimed. [Change the narration] 
a: Neelam exclaimed that the sunset looked very wonderful that night.
32: The book was so interesting that I could not put in down. (Begin: The book was too…………)
a: The book was too interesting for me to put it down.
33: The Principal Said, “All the prizes will be distributed tomorrow.” (Begin: The principal Said that………..)
a: The Principal said that all the prizes would be distributed the next day.
34: Last night’s dinner was cooked for us by father. (Begin: Father………………………….)
a: Father cooked last night’s dinner for us.
35: If Mary catches the first bus, she will be on time for school. (Begin: Unless…………………………)
a: Unless Mary catches the first bus, she will not be on time for school.
36: In spite of having high fever the girl came to school. (Begin: Despite………………………..)
a: Despite having high fever, the girl came to school.
37: I prefer going out with friends to staying alone at home. (Begin: I would rather………………….)
a: I would rather go out with friends than stay alone at home.
38: Hardly had the teacher left the room, when all the children started making a noise. (Begin: No sooner ……………………..)
a: No sooner did the teacher leave the room than all the children started making noise.
39: This is the funniest movie I have ever seen. (Begin: Never…………………… )
a: Never before have I seen a story as funny as this.
40: We had not even walked one kilometre when they stopped us. (Begin: Hardly …………………)
a: Hardly had we walked one kilometre when they stopped us. 
41: The memory is so vivid that I will never forget it. (Use 'too' in place of 'so')
a:  The memory is too vivid for me to ever forget it.
a:  The memory is too vivid to be forgotten.
42: That need not happen. (Rewrite: using does.)
a: That does not necessarily happen.
43: Food and sleep were all we cared about. (Begin: All …………………….) 
a: All we cared about was food and sleep.
44: We sat there face to face with our accuser. (Begin: There ...............................)
a: There we sat face to face with our accuser.
45: Herbert consulted his parents before accepting the job offer. (Begin: Herbert did not ………..) 
a: Herbert did not foget to consult his parents before accepting the job offer.
46: Put your tools away, the children may fall over them (Use: lest………………………) 
a: Put your tools away lest the children may fall over them.
47: It was the last time he saw his wife. (Begin: Never……………………)
a: Never again did he see his wife.
48: Robert said, “Let us call a taxi.” (Change the narration) 
a: Robert suggested that we should call a taxi.
49: Rachel has the speed to outrun most of the girls in our school. (Begin: Few Girls...)
a: Few girls in our school has the speed to outrun Rachel.
50: The book was rather interesting. (Begin: It…)
a: It was rather an interesting book.
51: I had never had such a tedious journey. (Begin: No other…)
a: No other journey I ever had was as tedious as this.
52:But for his last minute goal; we would have lost the match. (Begin: Had…) 
a: Had he not scored at the last minute, we would have lost the match.
53: She is very beautiful but she is not clever. (Begin: She is not as ….)
She is not as clever as she is beautiful.
54: The old man had nothing other than a hot tea in the chilly morning. (Begin: Apart…) 
a: Apart from a hot tea the old man had nothing in the chilly morning.
55: “Will you come to my studio tomorrow? I am having an exhibition of my painting.” Rita said. (Change into Indirect speech.) 
a: Rita asked whether I would come to her studio the next day as she was having an exhibition of her of her painting.
56: As soon as they advertised the job, there was a rush of applicants. (Begin: No sooner)
a: No sooner did they advertise the job than there was a rush of applicants.
57: You kept the book somewhere. Show me the place. (Combine)
a: Show me the place where you kept the books.
58: Supposing it is an emergency, we should act immediately. (Use: provided...) 
a: We should act immediately provided it is an emergency. 
59: It is admitted that he is the greatest leader. ( Begin: All ...)
a: All admit that he is the greatest leader. 
60: Be honest and you will be respected by everyone. (Use: Everyone...) 
a: If you are honest, everyone would respect you. 
61: Gullible as he is as, he was not taken in by the fraud. (Begin: In spite of...)
a: In spite of his gullibility, he was not taken in by the fraud.
a: In spite of being gullible, he was not taken in by the fraud.
62: My father was very charitable to everyone. (Use: the correct form of treat)
a: My father treated everyone charitably. 
63: Had Richard known what to do; he should have saved much time. (Begin: If...)
a: If Richard had known what to do, he would have saved much time. 
64: This rumour is incredible. (Begin: This rumour cannot .....)
a: This rumour cannot be credited.
a: This rumour cannot be believed.
a: The rumour is not credible.
a: The rumour is not believable.
65: The new budget made the public glad. (Begin:The public...)
a: The public were gladdened by the new budget.  
66: "How prophetic was Cassius' words that day!" said the soothsayer.(Change the narration)
a: The soothsayer said that Cassius' words were prophetic on that day. 
67: The students said," Let there be no tests today." (Change into Reported Speech)
a: The students wished that there might be no tests that day.
68: The Director accepted his proposal ultimately. (Use: ‘rejected’)
a: Ultimately his proposal was not rejected by the Director.
69: His father is too honest to accept bribe. (Remove: ‘too’)
a: His father is so honest that he cannot accept a bribe.
70: As soon as I started to run, my left foot was twisted.(Use: ‘no sooner’)
a: No sooner did I start to run than my left foot was twisted. 
71: Your son was admitted to this school last year. (Use: ‘admission’) 
a: Your son got admission to this school last year.
a: Your son gained admission to this school last year.
72: The news is too good to be true. (Remove: ‘too’)
a: The news is so good that it cannot be true. 
73: As soon as the chairman arrived, the directors put up their demands. (Use: no sooner’)
a: No sooner did the chairman arrive, than the directors put up their demands. 
74: He agreed with his son on the choice of his subjects. (Use: ‘oppose’) 
a: He did not oppose his son on the choice of his subjects. 
75: The king received his General coldly after losing the war. (Use: ‘cold’)
a: The king's reception of his General after losing the war was cold. 
76: Shankar is so intelligent that he doesn’t need any advice.(Use: ‘too’)
a: Shankar is too intelligent to need any advice.
77: As soon as the crowd started shouting the slogans, the Minister ran away. (Use: ‘no sooner’)
a: No sooner did the crowd start shouting slogans than the Minister ran away.
78: He succeeded in the competition in the very first attempt. (Use: ‘fail’)
a: He did not fail in the competition in the very first attempt. 
79: She does not intend to participate in the tournament. (Use: ‘intention’)
a: She has no intention of participating in the tournament.
a: She does not have an intention to participate in the tournament.
80: Emily was waiting for the train. She was reading Tolstoy’s War and Peace. (Combine the two without using and or but) 
a: While Emily was waiting for the train, she was reading Tolstoy’s War and Peace. 
81: Saroja sang well. She received the first prize. (Begin: Not only ….)
a: Not only did Saroja sing well but also received the first prize.
82: The porter said to me “I will take your luggage to the retiring room provided you give me a good tip?” (Change the narration.)
a: The porter told me that he would take my luggage to the retiring room provided i gave him a good tip.
83: If Ajay gets a scholarship, his parents will be elated. (Use ‘unless’ in place of ‘if’)
a: Unless Ajay gets a scholarship, his parents will not be elated.
84: The children were spellbound by the exceptional sight of an elephant bathing. (Change the voice)
a: The exceptional sight of an elephant bathing spellbound the children.
85: The protesters turned violent. Immediately the police blocked the roads. (Use: No sooner….)
a: No sooner did the protesters turned violent than the police blocked the roads.
86: The film was so dreary to me that I will not recommend it to anyone.(Use: too)
a: The film was too dreary to me to recommend it to anyone.
87: Our football team is one of the favourites in the tournament. (Begin: Very few…..)
a: Very few teams in the tournament are as favourite as our foot ball team.
88: Those that are hapless ought to have our sympathy. [Begin: The hapless…]
a: The hapless ought to have our sympathy.
89: The reason for his sudden departure is a mystery. [ Rewrite using ‘why’)
a: No one knows why he suddenly departed.
90: Sheila could not understand the reason for her sister’s offensiveness. [Use: offensive] 
a: Sheila could not understand why her sister was so offensive.
b: Sheila could not understand why her sister was offensive.
91: You ought to be more committed.[Begin: Use the noun form of committed]
a: You ought to have more commitment
92: During her turbulent days Renee had the help of only her friend Sasha. [Begin: Apart…] 
a: Apart from her friend Sasha, Renee had no other help during her turbulent days.
93: Reshma asked, “Are you confident that this is the procedure to secure a bank loan?” [Change into reported speech] 
a: Reshma asked whether I was confident that that was the procedure to secure a bank loan.
94: Stephen apologised earnestly but that had little impression on the teacher. [Begin: Not even …]
a: Not even Stephen's earnest apology had any impression on the teacher.
95: It is normal for a child to eat four times a day. [Begin: Normally]
a: Normally a child eats four times a day.
96: I said to him , "You are doing my work now." [Change into reported speech]
a: I told him that he was doing my work then.
97: He said, "I am here." [Change into reported speech]
a: He said that he was there.
98: He is as cunning as a fox [Begin: A fox is not ...]
a: A fox is not as cunning as him.
99: Amazing feats were shown by the acrobats [Change the voice]
a: The acrobats showed amazing feats.
100: Raman said, "I am never going to invite you again." [Change the narration]
a: Raman said he was never going to invite me again.
101: "Where can I park my car?" she asked the policeman. [Change the narration]
a: She asked the policeman where she could park her car.
102: This is the hottest summer we ever had. [Use: hot]
a: No other summer we ever had was as hot as this.
103: I was annoyed by his behaviour. [Change the voice]
a: His behaviour annoyed me. 
104: I am invited. [Supply a question tag]
a: I am invited, am I not?
105: The teacher said, "Have you done your homework?" [Change the narration]
a: The teacher enquired whether he had done his homework.
106: As soon as the tiger attacked the rabbit, it attacked. [Begin: No sooner]
a: No sooner did the tiger attack the rabbit than it attacked.
107: No other athlete in our school is as fast as Rachel. [Use: fastest]
a: Rachel is the fastest athlete in our school.
108: If you do not hurry up, you will miss the train. [Begin: Unless…]
a: Unless you hurry up, you will miss the train.
109: I was so tired that I was not able to follow him. [Use: too]
a: I was too tired to follow him.
110: Can we ever forget those happy days? [Rewrite as an Assertive sentence]
a: We can never forget those happy days.
111: He did not come. He did not write a letter. [Use:'neither... nor...']
a: Neither did he come nor did he write a letter.
112: He passed the examinations. He got a gold medal.[Use:'not only...']
a: Not only did he pass the examination but also got a gold medal.
113: As I frowned harder and harder, he smiled more and more broadly. [Begin: The harder….]
a: The harder I frowned, the broader he smiled.
a: The harder I frowned, more broadly did he smile.
114: This place is the best place to observe the sunset. [Use: better]
a: No other place is better than this to observe the sunset.
115: How thrilling it was to see the celebration! [Begin: It...]
a: It was thrilling to see the celebration.
116: From the news channels came the report that blockade was over. [Begin: The news channels …]
a: The news channels reported that the blockade was over.
117: I asked my mother whether she thought that I was foolish. [Change into Direct Speech]
a: I said to my mother, "Do you think I am foolish?"
118: The student said, “I shall finish the project today.” [Change into reported speech]
a: The student said that he would finish the project the same day.
a: The student said that he would finish the project that day.
119: This is the last time you will ever sit in this cinema. [Begin: Never...]
a: Never again will you sit in this cinema.
120: A senseless man repeats his mistakes. [Rewrite using ‘sensible’.]
a: A sensible man does not repeat his mistakes.
121: She is so weak that she cannot walk by herself. [Rewrite using ‘so...that...]
a:  She is so weak that she cannot walk by herself.
122: They finished their work. They went home. [Begin: No sooner…]
a: No sooner did they finish their work than they went home.
123: This place is the best place to observe the elephants. [Use: better]
a: This place is better than any other place to observe the elephants.
124: How exhilarating it was to see the rainbow! [Begin: It...]
a: It was very exhilarating to see the rainbow.
a: It was exhilarating to see the rainbow.
125: From radios came the report that the war was over. [Begin: radios…]
a: Radios reported that the war was over.
126: I asked her whether she thought that I was boring. [Change into Direct Speech]
a: I asked her, “Do you think that I am boring?”
127: The student said, “I shall work hard.” [Change into reported speech]
a: The student said that he would work hard.
128: This is the last time you will ever sit in this cinema. [Begin: Never...]
a: Never again will you sit in this cinema.
129: A senseless man repeats his mistakes. [Rewrite using ‘sensible’.]
a: A sensible man does not repeat his mistakes.
130: She is so weak that she cannot walk by herself [Rewrite using ‘too...]
a: She is too weak to walk by herself.
131: They finished their work. They went home. [Begin: No sooner…]
a: No sooner did they finish their work than they went home.
a: No sooner had they finished their work than they went home.
132: Rajan is a scholar in Sanskrit. He is fluent in French too. [Begin: Not only….]
a: Not only is Rajan a scholar in Sanskrit but also fluent in French.
a: Not only is Rajan a scholar in Sanskrit but also he is fluent in French.
133: As soon as the train entered the station, the porters scrambled onto the train. [No sooner…]
a: No sooner did the train enter the station than the porters scrambled onto the train.
134:  The magician said, “Will anyone come onto the stage? I am going to perform a miracle that I performed yesterday in another town.” [Rewrite in reported speech]
a: The magician asked whether anyone would come onto the stage and added that he was going to perform a miracle that he had performed the previous day in another town.
a: The magician asked whether anyone would come onto the stage and he added that he was going to perform a miracle that he had performed the previous day in another town.
135: The old lady requested the boy to help her to cross the road. [Begin: The boy…]
a: The boy was requested by the old lady to help her to cross the road.
136: The children were so ill-mannered that I could not tolerate them. [ Use: too]
a: The children were too ill-mannered for me tolerate.
a: The children were too ill-mannered for me tolerate them.
137: If the flood had subsided, the crop would not have been damaged. [Begin: Had…]
a: Had the flood subsided, the crop would not have been damaged.
138: This is one of the most attractive places I have ever visited. [ Begin: Very few…]
a: Very few places I have ever visited are as attractive as this.
139: The students have probably answered the questions well. [Begin:  In…]
a: In all probability, the students have answered the questions well.
140: Raphael was driving the car. He was listening to the Prime Minister’s speech. (Combine the two without using and or but)
a: While driving the car, Raphael was listening to the radio. 
141: Serena won the race. She retained her overall record. (Begin: Not only ….)
a: Not only did Serena win the race but also retained her overall record.
142: The tourist said to me “I cannot see any landmarks in this guide. Can you direct me to the railway station today as you did yesterday? ” (Change the narration.)
a: The tourist said to/told me that he could not see any landmarks in that guide and asked me whether I could direct him to the railway station that day as I had done/did the previous day/the day before.
143: If it rains, the farmers will be relieved. (Use ‘unless’ in place of ‘if’)
a: Unless it rains, the famers will not be relieved.
144: The astronomers were fascinated by the rare phenomenon of the yellow moon. (Change the voice)
a: The phenomenon of the yellow moon fascinated the astronomers.
145: The crowd blocked off the road. Immediately the police came in swarms. (Use: No sooner….)
a: No sooner did the crowd block/had blocked off the road than the police came in swarms.
146: The book is so boring to me that I will not recommend it to anyone. (Use: too)
a: The book is too boring to me to recommend it to anyone.
147: Our school team is one of the strongest in the tournament. (Begin: Very few…..)
a: Very few school teams/teams in the tournament are as strong as our school team.
148: They have pulled down the old building. (Begin: The old building…...)
a: The old building was pulled down by them.
149: Though he was young, he fought valiantly. (Use ‘as’ instead of ‘though’)
a: Even as he was young, he fought valiantly.
150: As soon as he gets money, he spends it. (Begin: No sooner …...)
a: No sooner does he get money than he spends it.
151: He ran too quickly for me to catch him. (Rewrite using ‘so....that.)
a: He ran so quickly that I could not catch him.
152: If you do not put some oil on the hinge, it will squeak. (Begin: Unless…...)
a: Unless you put some oil on the hinge, it will squeak.
153: Put on your warm clothes, otherwise you will catch a chill. (Use ‘lest’ instead of ‘otherwise’.)
a: Put on your warm clothes lest you will catch a chill.
154: Although he has a car, he often goes to the office by bus. (Change into a simple sentence using ‘In spite of ’.)
a: In spite of having a car, he often goes to the office by bus.
155: As soon as they began to speak, they heard a loud knock at the door. (Begin: Scarcely…...)
a: Scarcely had they began to speak when they heard a loud knock at the door.
156: It is better to starve than to beg. (Begin: Starving…...)
a: Starving is better than begging.
157: They made Newton President of the Royal Society. (Change the Voice.)
a: Newton was made President of the Royal Society by them.
158: Half of the people in the village …….illiterate. (Use: is/are)
a: Half of the people in the village are illiterate.
159: I do not admire any writer as much as Bloom. (Use: most)
a: Among all writers, I admire Bloom the most.
160: The teacher said to Ali, “Do not feel hopeless. Be bold. Never give up. You can do it.” (Change into reported speech)
a: The teacher told Ali not to feel hopeless, to be bold and never to give up and assured him that he could do it.
161: The Principal asked the errant student to mend his ways. (Begin: The errant boy…)
a: The errant boy was asked to mend his ways by the Principal.
162: No one has scored as many goals as Lionel Messi. (Begin: Lionel...)
a: Lionel Messi has scored the most number of goals.
163: Though Rafeeqa lost the first game, she had the last laugh at the end of the match. (Use: Despite)
a: Despite losing the first game, Rafeeqa had the last laugh at the end of the match.
164: Raphael was stupid to believe the con man. (Use: enough)
a: Raphael was stupid enough to believe the con man.
165: The roguish boy is crazy of the voluptuous actress; he has a cache of her photographs. (Change into a simple sentence)
a: Being crazy of the gorgeous actress, the roguish boy has a cache of her photographs.
166: He has never made such a stupid mistake before. [Begin: Never…]
a: Never before has he done such a stupid mistake.
a: Never has he done such a stupid mistake.
167: If I were you, John, I would consult a doctor. [Use: the correct form of advice]
a: I advised John to consult a doctor.
168: The fans were saddened when the player decide to retire. [Use: noun form of decision]
a: The player’s decision to retire saddened the fans.
169: I exercise daily. What about you? [Combine the sentences]
a: Do you exercise daily as I do?
170: Who replaced the good umbrella with a broken one? [Use: substitute]
a: Who substituted the broken umbrella for a good one?      
171: Camilla is said to have been a diplomat. [Begin: People…]
a: People say that Camilla has been a diplomat.
172: Anoushka did not study regularly.  She regrets it now. [Use: wishes]
a: Anoushka wishes that she had studied regularly.
173: Rich as Job is, he is not unsympathetic towards the needy. [Begin: Despite...]
a: Despite being rich, Job is not unsympathetic towards the needy.
174: Jolly said, ‘Let me win the lottery.’  [Change into indirect speech]
a: Jolly wished that she might win the lottery.
175: But for the injured foot, he would have won the race. [Begin: Had…]
a: Had he not injured his foot, he would have won the race.
176: Alif exercised daily because he wanted to have strong muscles. [Use: In order ......should]
a: In order that he should have string muscles, Alif exercised daily.
177: When the teacher went out, the children ran out. [End: ...the children]
a: When the teacher went out, out ran the children.
178: “Are you still angry at me?” Kim asked me. [Change into Indirect Speech]
a: Kim asked me whether I was still angry at her.
a: Kim asked me whether I was still angry at him.
179: “Who had bought these beautiful paintings yesterday?” [Change the voice]
a: “By whom had these beautiful painting been bought yesterday?” 
180: Raquel was so adamant that he will not listen to any advice. [Change into a positive sentence]
a: Raquel was too adamant to listen to any advice.
181: Rachel likes Karun more than Sid. [Change into Positive Degree]
a: Rachel does not like Sid as much as Karun.
182: A student should not speak like that. [Begin: Is...]
a: Is that the way a student should speak?
183: Work hard to succeed. [Begin: None .....]
a: None will succeed without hard work.
184: It is a pity that the culprit was not punished. [Begin: I wish …………..]
a: I wish the culprit was punished.
185: Rosanna was so ecstatic with the success that she started weeping. [Begin: So ………………]
a: So ecstatic was Rosanna with the success that she started weeping.
186: Richard returned to work a week ago. [Begin: It has been ……...]
a: It has been a week since Richard returned to work.
187: A loving heart is the divinest creation of God. [Begin: No other ………..]
a: No other creation of God is as divine as a loving heart.
188: Hardly had Serena won the match when the crowd gave her a standing ovation. [Begin: No sooner……….]
a:  No sooner had Serena won the match than the crowd gave her a standing ovation.
189: Marita said to Mathew, "Please, do not forget to bring the flowers tomorrow". [Begin: Mathew………….]
a: Mathew was asked by Marita to not forget to bring the flowers next day.
a: Mathew was requested by Marita to not forget to bring the flowers next day.
190: There was heavy rain. The game continued. [Begin: Despite…………..]
a: Despite heavy rain, the game continued.
191: The taxi is very slow. We cannot reach the station in time. [Use: too………………….]
a: The taxi is too slow to reach the station in time.
192: Why did Renuka skip the test? (Change the voice)
a: Why was the test skipped by Renuka?
193:  “Did you understand the poem well yesterday?” the teacher asks. (Begin: The teacher asked….)
a: The teacher asked whether I had understood the poem the previous day.
a: The teacher asked whether we had understood the poem the previous day.
a: The teacher asked if  I had understood the poem the previous day.
a: The teacher asked if  we had understood the poem the previous day.
194: He snatched the ball from him and scored a goal. (Begin: Not only…..)
a: Not only did he snatch the ball from him but also scored a goal.
195: The Kotla grounds were too damaged to conduct the match. (Use: so….that)
a: The Kotla grounds were so damaged that it was not possible conduct the match.
196: Though skilled in painting, he was not admitted to the competition. (Begin: Despite…)
a: Despite being skilled in painting, he was not admitted to the competition.
a: Despite his skill in painting, he was not admitted to the competition.
197: As soon as the match started, the crowd turned violent. (Begin: No sooner….)
a: No sooner did the match start than the crowd turned violent.
a: No sooner had the match started than the crowd turned violent.
198: Ajay is very popular in the class as he is intelligent. (Use the noun form of intelligent)
Ajay’s intelligence makes him very popular in the class. (Use the noun form of ‘intelligent’)
199: ‘The Hurt Locker’ is one of the best films released this year. (Use: good)
a: No other film released this year is as good as 'The Hurt Locker'.
200: He saw the car rushing towards him and leapt aside. (Begin: Having……)
a: Having seen the car rushing towards him, he leapt aside.
201: The police are looking into the matter. (Provide a suitable question tag)
a: The police are looking into the matter, aren’t they?
202: They not only robbed the old man but also they beat him up. (Begin: Besides .............................................)
a: Besides robbing the old man, they also beat him up.
203: We will hire a taxi if we miss the bus. (Begin: If ......................)
a: If we miss the bus, we will hire a taxi.
204: Though he had a headache, he enjoyed the film. ( Begin: Despite .............................................)
a: Despite having a headache, she enjoyed the film.
205: If Thomas improves his IT skills, he will get a better-paid job. (Begin: Unless............................................. )
a: Unless Thomas improves his IT skills, he will not get a better-paid job.
206: People believe that the culprit has escaped from the prison. (Begin: The culprit.............................................)
a: The culprit is believed by people to have escaped from the prison.
207: The thief hid behind a wall so that the police might not see him. (Use ‘lest’.)
a: The thief hid behind a wall lest the police see him.
208: As soon as he heard the footsteps behind him, he took out the revolver. (Begin: No sooner .............................................)
a: No sooner did he hear the footsteps behind him than he took out the revolver.
209: He has probably forgotten my address. (Begin: In .............................................)
a: In all probability, he has forgotten my address.
210: As soon as the teacher went away, the children went way.  [Begin: No sooner….] 
a: No sooner did the teacher go away than the children went away.
211: The earthquake damaged the city extensively.  [Use: extensive…]
a: The earthquake caused extensive damage to the city. damaged the city extensively. 
212: Only the best will be rewarded.    [Use: None…] 
a: None but the best will be rewarded.
213: He is so honest that he will not cheat me.   [Use: too….]
a: He is too honest to cheat me.  
214: Opening a Primary Heath Centre in a village is planned. [Begin: It…]
a: It is planned to open a Primary Heath Centre in a village.
215: Nothing can be gained without effort.   [Begin: Can…]
a: Can anything be gained without effort? 
216: ‘But for your timely help, I would have failed.’ John said to Tom. [Change into Indirect Speech]
a: John said to Tom that if he had not helped him in time he would have failed.
217: What does Francis feel about the game of hide-and-seek? [ Change the voice]
a: What is felt by Francis about the game of hide-and-seek?
218: I cannot give you her address. I cannot take to her house. [Begin: Neither…]
a: Neither can I  give you her address nor take to her house.
219: We go to a restaurant every Sunday. This restaurant. [Use: where]
a: This the restaurant where we go every Sunday.
220: I returned home. I found my mother fighting with the neighbour. (Begin: On…) 
a: On returning home, I found my mother fighting with the neighbour.
221: Mina is one of the most brilliant students in our school. (Begin: Very few…)
a: Very few students in our school are as brilliant as Mina.
222: As soon as the rain stopped, the children rushed to the playground. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner did the rain stop than the children rush to the playground.
223: If the taxi had not come in time, I would have missed the flight. (Begin: Had…)
a: Had the taxi not come in time, I would have missed the flight.
224: The traveller said, “Are the forests here dangerous?” (Change into Reported speech)
a: The traveller asked whether the forests there were dangerous.
225: John said “Let me have a pocketful of gold coins.” (Change into Reported speech)
a: John asked for a pocketful of gold coins.
a: John requested for a pocketful of gold coins.
226: You are too inexperienced to be given the job. (Use: so…that)
a: You are so inexperienced that you cannot be given the job. 
227: Can you assist me to lift this bag? (Change the voice)
a: Can I be assisted by you to lift this bag?
228: The management may have to postpone the event due to rain. (Begin: If…)
a: If it rains, the management may have to postpone the event.
229: You have probably given the book to somebody. (Begin: In…)
a: In all probability, you have to give the book to somebody.
230: Sajana exclaimed that Hyderabad is a very crowded city. [Change narration]
a: Sajana said, "Hyderabad is a very crowded city!"
231: Annette is the best seamstress in our town. [Begin: No other…]
a: No other seamstress in our town is as good as Annette.
232: Zeenath said, ‘Why don’t you apply for the post, Jasmine?’ [Begin: Jasmine ….]
a: Jasmine was asked by Zeenath to apply for the post.
a: Jasmine was advised by Zeenath to apply for the post.
233: To my surprise, the train was not running late. [Use: find]
a: To my surprise, I found that the train was not running late.
234: The crowd started pelting stones at the politician. Instantly the police arrived. [Use: No sooner….]
a: No sooner did the crowd start pelting stones at the politician than the police arrived.
235: The play is so dull that I will not recommend it to anyone. [Use: too]
a: The play is too dull to recommend to anyone.
a: The play is too dull for me to recommend it to anyone.
236: Roberto is the best player, but he was not included in the team. [Begin: Despite…]
a: Despite being the best player, Roberto was not included in the team. 
237: If Hemant had listened to the doctor’s advice, he would have been cured of the illness. [Begin: Had….]
a: Had Hemant listened to the doctor's advice, he would have been cured of the illness.
238: I have never heard such a lot of nonsense before.  (Begin: Never before…)
a: Never before have I heard such a lot of nonsense.
239:  He was exhausted but still he kept going. (Begin: Despite…)
a: Despite his exhaustion, he kept going.
240: He said, “If I were you, George, I would start immediately." (Begin: He advised….)
a: He advised George to start immediately.
241: I had scarcely finished the speech when Rajiv jumped to his feet. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner had I finished the speech than Rajiv jumped to his feet.
242: The tourists were the only ones who witnessed the capture of the elephants. (Begin: No one)
a: No one except the  tourists witnessed the capture of the elephants
243: I did not meet him, so I could not give him your message. (Begin: If I had…)
a: If I had met him, I could have given him your message.
244: The thief got in because you did not lock the door properly. (Use: since)
a: Since you did not lock the door properly, the thief got in.
245: Samira wishes that she had studied her lessons well in advance. (Use: regrets)
a: Samira regrets that she had not studied her lessons well in advance.
246: Either Nita or her sister …… at fault. (Fill in using ‘is/are’)
a: Either Nita or her sister is at fault.
247: Why did you not attend the function last night? (Change the voice.)
a: Why was the function last night not attended by you?
248: Sheena said,” Alas! How foolish of me to leave out one question!” (Change into indirect speech)
a: Sheena exclaimed that she had been foolish to leave out one question.
249: The Taj Mahal is the grandest building in the world. (Use: ‘grand’)
a: No other building in the world is as grand as the Taj Mahal.
250: None but a fool would do such a thing. (Change into an assertive sentence)
a: Only a fool would do such a thing.
251: As soon as he finishes his work, he starts singing in joy. (Begin: No sooner…..)
a: No sooner does he finish his work than he starts singing in joy.
252: You should open the door then only you will come to know what lies behind it. (Rewrite using ‘Unless’)
a: Unless you open the door, you will not come to know what lies behind it.
253: The suit was so expensive that I could not buy it. (Use: too)
a: The suit was too expensive for me to buy it.
254: It was too hot. We could not practice our game. (Begin: Had ….)
a: Had it not been too, we could have practised our game.
255: He was late. He was admitted. (Use ‘despite’) 
a: Despite being late, he was admitted.
256: The Prime Minister invited each member of the cabinet to state his views. (Change the Voice.)
a: Each member of the cabinet was invited by the Prime Minister to state this views.
257: Jackson said to me, “I have bought a book on wildlife.” (Change into Reported Speech.)
a: Jackson told me that he had bought a book on wildlife.
258:  He went to England to perfect his English. (Change into a Complex Sentence using ‘so that’)
a: He went to England so that he could perfect his English.
259: If you have enough money, you can stay in that expensive hotel. (Begin: Provided that........)
a: Provided that you have enough money, you can stay in that expensive hotel.
260: When he entered the room, he took off his hat. (Begin: On........)
a: On entering the room, he took off his hat.
261: If you had not lied to me before, I would have believed you. (Begin: Had........)
a: Had you not lied to me before, I would have believed you.
262: Although she has no particular talent for music, she sings tolerably well. (Begin: In spite of........)
a: In spite of having no particular talent for music, she sings tolerably well.
263: The young man was too furious to contain himself. (Use: so.... that)
a: The young man was so furious that he could not contain himself.
264: Only a dedicated scientist can provide such a detailed report. (Begin: None…...)
a: None but a dedicated scientist can provide such a detailed report.
265: As soon as the teacher had gone, the students started to mess around. (Begin: No sooner........)
a: No sooner had the teacher gone than the students started to mess around.
266: The thief ran away the moment he saw me. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner did the thief see me than he ran away.
267: He did not speak a word. (Begin: Not…)
a: Not a word was spoken by him.
268: He is so addicted to alcohol that he cannot give it up. (Use: too)
a: He is too addicted to alcohol to give it up.
269: The guide said to us, “You can see the tigers from there. Do you want to go there?” (Change into indirect speech)
a: The guide told us that we could see the tigers from there and asked if we wanted to go there.
270: The only thing I could see in the forest was a starved monkey. (Begin: Apart…)
a: Apart from a starved monkey, we did not see anything in the forest.
271: We assisted the old lady to cross the road. (Begin: The old…)
a: The old lady was assisted by us to cross the road.
272: The teacher said to us, “Let all of you prosper in your life.” (Change into indirect speech)
a: The teacher wished us prosperity in our lives.
a: The teacher said that she wanted all of us to prosper in our lives.
273: The film is not entertaining. The film does not have a message. (Use: Neither .....nor)
a: Neither the film is entertaining nor has a message.
274: Only the brave get rewarded (Use: None)
a: None but the brave get rewarded.
275: As soon as the child starts talking, the parents try to teach them rhymes. (begin: No sooner)
a: No sooner does the child start talking than the parents try to teach them rhymes.
276: His qualification was so deficient that the committee rejected his application. (Use: too)
a: His qualification was too deficient for the committee to accept his application.
277: He was too arrogant to be an efficient leader. (Use: Change into a negative sentence)
a: He is so arrogant that he cannot be an efficient leader.
278: The robber should confess or he will be condemned. (Use: Unless)
a:   Unless the robber confesses, he will be condemned.
279:Some of the flowers in the market are costlier than the orchid. (Begin: The orchid...)
a:  The orchid is not as costly as some of the flowers in the market.
280: The President of the company said, “I will ensure that the employees are exempted from overtime work. Do you have any objection to my proposal?” (Change the narration)
a: The President of the company said that he would ensure that the employees were exempted from overtime work and asked whether they had any objection to his proposal.
281: The Prime Minister says, “Our country has progressed immensely.” (Change the narration]
a: The Prime Minister says that our country has progressed immensely.
282: You should practise what you preach. (Begin: Practise...)
a: Practise what you preach.
283: He was sufficiently courageous to face the dreadful enemy. (Use: courage)
a: He had enough courage to face the dreadful enemy.
a: He had courage enough to face the dreadful enemy.
284: We can always rely on your friend. (Change to interrogative)
a: Can we always rely on your friend?
285: We expect that they will finish the assignment by Monday. (Use them instead of they)
a: We expect them to finish the assignment by Monday.
a: It is expected of them to finish the assignment by Monday.
286: We are too proud to admit our mistakes. (Use: so…that)
a: We are so proud that we will not admit our mistakes.
287: The manager was very honest, yet he was dismissed. (Begin: In spite of…..)
a: In spite of being honest, the manager was dismissed.
a: In spite of his honesty, the manager was dismissed.
288: The government is planning to establish a health centre in the village. (Use: the noun form of establish)
a: The government is planning the establishment of a heath centre in the village.
a: Establishment of a health centre is being planned by the government.
289: Robert asked Violet, “Is this the right way to proceed? Can you guide me in this task?” (Change into indirect speech)
a: Robert asked Violet whether it was the right way to proceed and asked her whether she could guide him in that task.
290: As soon as Oliver sees Celia, he falls in love with her. (Begin: No sooner….)
a: No sooner does Oliver see Celia than he falls in love with her.
291: He did not know how dangerous it is going to be. Otherwise he would not have attempted it. (Begin: Had ….)
a: Had he known how dangerous it was going to be, he would not have attempted it.
292: Ethiopia is one of the most deprived countries in the African continent. (Begin: Very few….)
a: Very few countries in the African continent are as deprived as Ethiopia.
293: My mother arrived a month ago. (Begin: It has…..)
a: It has been a month since my mother’s arrival.
294: The wounded were taken to the nearby hospital by an ambulance. (Change the voice)
a: An ambulance took the wounded to the nearby hospital.
295: Shah wrote a letter of apology to Sam, but not even that removed his anger.[Begin: Not even …]
a: Not even a letter of apology by shah to Sam removed his anger. 
296: The mother asked, “Are you the hero who saved my child?” [Change into reported speech]
a: The mother asked whether/if I was the hero who/that saved her child.
297: In the heavy rain, I had no company other than from a wet cat. [Begin: Apart…]
a: Apart from a wet cat, I had no other company in the heavy rain.
298: One should keep one’s promises. [Begin: Promises…]
a: Promises should be kept.
299: The teacher could not understand the reason for his absence. [Use absent instead of absence.] 
a: The teacher could not understand why he was absent.
300: My father said to me” Let us go to the club.” [Change into indirect speech]
a: My father asked me to go with him to the club.
a: My father asked me to go to the club with him.
301: No other empire in the world was as powerful as the Roman empire. [Use: most]
a: Most empires in the world were not as powerful as the Roman empire.
302: As soon as he wins the race, he prostrates on the track. [Begin: No sooner…]
a: No sooner does he win the race than he prostrates on the track.
303: The Principal disagreed with the proposal of the students, didn’t he? [ Use: agree]
a: The Principal did not agree with the proposal of the students.
304: Who replaced the player after he was injured? [ Use substitute instead of replaced]
a: Who substituted the player after he was injured?
305: Jasper has probably forgotten his mother’s birthday. [Begin: In…] 
a: In all probability, Jasper has forgotten his mother's birthday.
306: For more information, please, contact the receptionist of the hotel. [Begin: if…]
a: If you need more information please contact the receptionist of the hotel.
a: If you want more information please contact the receptionist of the hotel.
307: He could not participate in the race as he had an injured foot. [ Use: ’prevented’]
a: An injured foot prevented him from participating in the race.
308: Those that are helpless deserve our pity. [Begin: The helpless…]
a: The helpless deserve our pity.
309: The reason of her failure is not known. [ Rewrite using ‘why’ in the sentence]
a: Why she failed is not known.
310: The publisher accepted the writer’s proposal ultimately.  (Use: ‘reject’)
a: The publisher did not reject the writer’s proposal ultimately.
311: James suddenly thought of a wondrous project. (End with: _____ to James)
a: A wondrous project suddenly occurred to James.
312: Fauzia missed the flight as she was late. (Use: ‘catch’)
a: Fauzia could not catch the flight as she was late.
313: The neighbours returned one week ago. (Begin with: ‘It has’…..)
a: It has been a week since the neighbours returned/ the neighbours’ return.
314: Reema is a wise girl. The other girls are not so wise. [Begin: Very few….]
a: Very few girls are as wise as Reema.
315: You must work conscientiously. You will lose your ranking otherwise.  [Use: Unless…]
a: Unless you work conscientiously, you will lose your ranking.
316: The driver was injured. He helped the victims. [Use: Despite]
a: Despite being injured, the driver helped the victims.
317: Of what use is this tool to you? (End with: ……….. you.)
a: This too is of no use to you.
318: The rain had stopped. Immediately, the children ran to their home. [Begin: No sooner ...]
a: No sooner did the rain stop than the children ran to their home
319: You should complete the assignment by Monday. [Begin: The assignment ...]
a: The assignment should be completed by Monday by you
320: The task appears to be difficult. [Begin: It…]
a: It appears that the task is difficult.
321: Jamila said, “May I come a little late tomorrow?” [Change into Indirect Speech]
a: Jamila asked whether she could come a little late the next day.
322: Will the management agree to your proposal?  [Change the Voice]
a: Will your proposal be agreed to by the management?
323: The wheel came off, and the car skidded into a ditch. [Begin: Had….]
a: Had the wheel not come off, the car would not have skidded into a ditch.
324: Pamela is one of the best doctors in the hospital. [Change into Positive Degree]
a: Very few doctors in the hospital are as good as Pamela.  
325: I am to visit the Principal tomorrow. [Provide a Question tag]
a: I am to visit the Principal tomorrow, aren’t I?
326: The protesters created havoc in the hall. The Chairman was delivering the speech. (Combine the two)
a: While the Chairman was delivering the speech, the protesters created havoc in the hall. 
327: Krishna took the injured to the the hospital. He donated blood too. (Begin: Not only ….)
a: Not only did Krishna take the injured to the hospital but also donated blood.
328: The teacher said to him, “Have you finished your project?” (Change the narration.)
a: The teacher asked him if/whether he had finished his project.
329: The lawyer argued the case thoroughly. (Begin: The case…..)
a: The case thoroughly argued by the lawyer.
330: If he agrees to deliver the speech, we will be delighted. (Use ‘unless’)
a: Unless he agrees to deliver the speech, we will not be delighted/ we will be disappointed.
331: Roja asked, “John, please, attend my party.” (Begin: John….)
a: John was asked by Roja to attend her party.
332: He saw a bus coming at full speed. Immediately he stopped the old woman cross the street. (Use: No sooner….)
a: No sooner did he see a bus coming at full speed than he stopped the old woman cross the street.
333: He was too strongheaded  to accept the argument. (Use: so…that) 
a: He was so strong headed that he would not accept the argument.
334: Tagore is one of the most popular poets in the West. (Use: Very few)
a: Very few poets are as popular as Tagore in the West.
335: She is loved by all because she is kindhearted. (Use: kindness)
a: She is loved by all because of her kindness. 
336: Order today and get a free gift. (Begin: If...)
a: If you order today, you will get a free gift.
337: Who taught you embroidery? (Begin: By...)
a: By whom was you taught embroidery?
338: My sister’s attitude annoys me sometimes. (Begin: I...)
a: I am annoyed by my sister’s attitude sometimes.
339: The match was so important that we could not forget it. (Use: too)
a: The match was too important for us to forget.
340: I did not speak word. (Begin: Not...)
a: Not a word did I speak. 
341: Anurima is one of the best debaters in our class. (Use: good)
a: Very few girls in our class are as good a debater as Anurima.
342: Rakesh asked, “In which year you finished your school?” ( Change the narration)
a: Rakesh asked me in which year I had finished school.
343: Do you not regret your action? (Begin: Surely...)
a: Surely you must be regretting your action.
a: Surely you regret your action, don’t you?
344: Closely watching him, I hid in bush. (Use: watched)
a: I watched him closely and then hid in a bush.
345: The computer maintenance did not require much money. (Use: expensive)
a: The computer maintenance was not expensive.
346: Do you believe in aliens? (End: exist)
a: Do you believe that aliens exist?
347: Jane is the most honest girl in the class. [ Change into positive degree]
a: No other girl in the class is as honest as Jane.
348: As soon as I reached home, it started raining. [Begin: No sooner…]
a: No sooner did I reach home than it started raining.
349: He arrived on time, even though his car broke down on the way. (Use ‘despite)
a: Despite his car breaking down on the way, he arrived on time.
350: It was too hot for us to eat the pakoras. (Use: ‘so… that’)
a: It was so hot that we could not eat the pakoras.
351: If the actress relents, she will get a chance in his new film.(Use: ‘unless’)
a: Unless the actress relents, she will not get a chance in his new film. 
352: “Will you help me?” said the boy to the teacher. [Change into indirect speech]
a: The boy asked the teacher whether she would help him.
353: George did not realise that he had committed an error. [Begin: Little …]
a: Little did George realise that he had committed an error.
354: I do not care which portfolio in the cabinet I am offered. [Begin: I care very…]
a: I care very little which portfolio in the cabinet I am offered to me.
a: I care very little which portfolio in the cabinet I is offered to me.
355: Rachel must apologise or else she will be punished. [Use: apology]
a: Rachel’s apology will save her from punishment.
a: If Rachel makes an apology, she will not be punished.
356: He succeeded in completing the assignments although he was ill. [Use: Despite…]
a: Despite his illness, he succeeded in completing the assignments.
357: If I had not intervened in the matter, it would have had a drastic consequence. [Begin: But…]
a: But for my intervention in the matter, it would have had a drastic consequence.
358: The granny opened the door and her pet dog ran out. [End: dog]
a: The granny opened the door and out ran her pet dog.
359: If a fire breaks out, use the emergency exit. [Begin: In case of ….]
a: In case of a fire/fire, use the emergency exit.
360: Always use a standard dictionary. Do not use the three-penny ones. [Use: in lieu of]
a: Always use a standard dictionary in lieu of a three penny one.
361: “Have you heard of the Yeti, Mohan?” , said Meera. [ Change into a statement]
a: Meera asked Mohan whether he had heard of the Yeti.
362: Rosa was so sure of winning the race that she skipped her daily practice. [Begin: So….]
a: So sure of winning the race was Rosa that she skipped her daily practice.
363: Caesar’s overbearing pride was the reason for his tragic fall. [Use: proud]
a: Caesar tragically fell as he was overbearingly proud.
a: Caesar was so overbearingly proud that he tragically fell.
364: Joan was pretty .She was not intelligent. [combine using as]
a: Joan was not as intelligent as she was pretty.
365: If you need any help, call the Customer Care. [Begin: Should…]
a: Should you need any help, call the Customer Care.
366: They believe that honey is the ambrosia on earth. [Change the voice]
a: It is believed that honey is the ambrosia on earth.
367: You have to persevere in order to prove yourself in life. [Use: so that]
a: You have to persevere so that you will/can/may prove yourself in life.
368: Sheela was assured of a Scholarship by the Principal. (Begin: The Principal…)
a: The Principal assured Sheela of a Scholarship.
369: Abraham asked Sakshi, “Will you come with me to the dance classes from tomorrow.” (Change into Reported Speech)
a: Abraham asked Sakshi whether she would come with him to the dance classes from the following day.
370: Rahman fell ill, so he could not run the race. (Begin: Having….)
a: Having fallen ill, Rahman could not run the race.
371: Ritika could not understand the reason for her mother’s irritation. (Use: irritated)
a: Ritika could not understand why her mother was irritated.
372: The 100m dash is one of the most interesting races in Athletics. (Begin: Very few…)
a: Very few races in Athletics are as interesting as the 100m dash.
373: Most of the news ……. incredible. (Fill the blank correctly)
a: Most of the news is incredible.
374: Felix said that he had never been to a Chinese restaurant. (Change the narration)
a: Felix said, “I have never been to a Chinese restaurant”.
375: As soon as I entered the library, the lights went off. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner did I enter the library than the lights went off.
376: Besides being awarded a cash prize, Reena received a trophy too. (Begin: Not only…)
a:  Not only was Reena awarded a cash prize but also received a trophy.
377: If the police had not arrived in time, the burglar would have escaped. (Begin:  Had….)
a: Had the police not arrived in time, the burglar would have escaped.
378: The old man was too sick to walk. ( Remove: too) 
a: The old man was so sick that he could not walk.
379: Asher asked his sister “Will you not accompany me to the party tomorrow?” ( Use: if)
a: Asher asked his sister if she would/would not accompany him to the party the next day/the day after.
380: Besides making a promise, she kept it. (Begin: She)
a: She kept her promise.
a: She not only made a promise but also kept it. 
381: He was immensely talented, yet he failed because of his laziness. (use: Despite)
a: Despite his immense talent/ being immensely talented, he failed because of his laziness.
382: As soon as the police rounded up his thugs, the leader vanished. (Use: no sooner)
a: No sooner did the police round up/ had rounded up his thugs than the leader vanished. 
383: Is he known to the manager? (End: him) 
a: Does the manager know him? 
a: Is the manager known to him? 
384: The Kid is one of the most popular novels today. ( Change into positive degree) 
a: Very few novels today are as popular as The Kid.
385: The minister promised to look into the matter. (Use: investigate) 
a: The minister promised to investigate the matter 
386: The Principal asked the children to study regularly. ( Change the narration) 
a: The Principal said, “Children, study well.”
387: Read the answers carefully and correct the mistakes if any. ( Use: ‘go’ instead of ‘read’) 
a: Go through the answers carefully and correct the mistakes if any.
388: Very few subjects are as important as English. (Use: most)
a: English is one of the most important subjects.
389: Only if India wins the cup, we will have a holiday.( Change into a negative sentence) 
a: Unless India wins the cup, we will not have a holiday. 
a: If India does not win the cup, we will not have a holiday.
390: The matter was reported to the commissioner. (Change the voice) 
a: The commissioner was reported of/about the matter.
391: She is very dull in studies. She is smart-looking. ( Combine the sentences) 
a: Though dull in studies, she is smart-looking. 
a: In spite of being dull in studies, she is smart looking. 
a: Despite being dull in studies, she is smart looking.
392: The Judge said to the Prosecutor, “Do you agree with the arguments presented yesterday?” Change into indirect speech)
a: The Judge  asked the Prosecutor whether he agreed with the arguments presented (on) the previous day/the day before. 
393: As soon as the results were declared, the web-server was very busy. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner were the results announced than the web-server was busy.
394: He said to his friend,” I go for a walk every day.” (Change into reported speech) 
a: He said to his friend that he goes for a walk every day.
a: He told his friend that he goes for a walk every day.
395: I can go to the theater. (Provide a suitable question tag)
a: I can go to the theater, can’t I?
396: He is a diplomat and a poet. (Use: Not only…) 
a: Not only is he a diplomat but also a poet.
397: Focus on your goal or you will not achieve it. (Use: Unless)
a: Unless you focus on you goal, you will not achieve it.
398: If you aren’t a member of the Club, you cannot sit in the lounge. (Begin: You….)
a: You should be a member of the Club to sit in the lounge.
399: George asked, “Don’t you like to read books, Harris?” (Change the narration)
a: George asked Harris whether he did not like to read books.
400: The crowd turned violent since the policemen were rude. (Begin: But….)
a: But for the rudeness of the policemen, the crowd would not have turned violent.
401: When Renuka was in misery, no friends except Aruna helped her. (Begin: Apart….)
a: Apart from Aruna, none of her friends helped Renuka in her misery.
a: Apart from Aruna, none of her friends helped Renuka in misery.
402: I entered the office. Sheela was getting out of the car. (Combine the two sentences)
a: When I entered the office, Sheela was getting out of the car.
403: No sooner had I arrived at the stadium than the match started. (Use: Hardly)
a: Hardly had I entered the stadium when the match started.
404: The Tin Drum is one of the greatest plays by Gunter Grass. (Use: great)
a: Very few plays by Gunter Grass are as great as The Tin Drum.
405: Jeremy was said to be in the army. (Begin: People….)
a: People believed that Jeremy was in the army. 
406: This project will take six months to finish. (Begin: In six months ….)
a: In six months’ time the project will be finished.
407: But for his help, he would have perished. [Begin: Had he…]
a: Had he not helped, he would have perished.
408: As soon as I reached home, it started raining. [Begin: Hardly…]
a: Hardly had I reached home, when it started raining.
409: She is the most arrogant girl in the class. [ Change into positive degree]
a: No other girl in the glass is as arrogant as her.
a: No other girl in the glass is as arrogant as she is.
410: Nobody will deny that he tried his best. [Begin: Everyone….]
a: Everyone will admit that he tried his best.
a: Everyone will agree that he tried his best.
411: Delhi is one of the most populous cities in India. (Use: ‘more’)
a: Some of the cities in India are more populous than Delhi.
412: The magistrate said to the lawyer, “You should submit your evidence now.” (Begin with: The magistrate told…….)
a: The magistrate asked the lawyer that he should submit his evidence then.
413: He was promised all help by us. ( Change the voice)
a: We promised him all help.
414: May God bless you with success! ( Change the voice)
a: May you be blessed with success by God.
415: The strike has been called off. ( Change the voice) 
a: They have called of the strike.
416: No one can understand him so soon. ( Change the voice)
a: He cannot be understood so soon.
417: They will not agree to this proposal. ( Change the voice)
a: This proposal will not be agreed to.
418: It is time to close the shops. ( Change the voice)
a: The shops should be closed by now.
a: It is the time for the shops to be closed.
419: The teacher is calling the roll. ( Change the voice)
a: The roll is being called by the teacher.
420: What cannot be cured must be endured. ( Change the voice)
a: We must endure what we cannot cure.
a: One must endure what one cannot cure.
421: God helps those who help themselves. ( Change the voice)
a: Those who help themselves are helped by God.
422: I will not answer any question now. ( Change the voice)
a: No questions will be answered now by me.
423: She has to do cooking and washing for me. ( Change the voice)
a: The cooking and washing have to be done for me by her.
424: A rolling stone gathers no mass. ( Change the voice)
a: It is said that a rolling stone gathers no mass.
425: The way to heaven is paved with good deeds. ( Change the voice)
a: It is believed that the way to heaven is paved with good deeds.
426: Trust in God and do the right. ( Change the voice)
a: God should be trusted in and the right should be done.
427:  Nip the evil in the bud. ( Change the voice)
a: It is said that evil should be nipped in the bud.
428: A stitch in time saves nine. ( Change the voice)
a: It is said that a stitch in time saves nine.
429: Those living in glass house must not throw stones at others. ( Change the voice)
a: Stones must not be thrown at others by those living in glass houses.
430: I was shocked at the sad news. ( Change the voice)
a: The sad news shocked me.
431: The court proclaimed him an offender. ( Change the voice)
a: He was proclaimed an offender by the court.
432: A horse is more intelligent than an ass.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: An ass is not as intelligent as a horse.
433: A wise enemy is better than a foolish friend.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: A foolish friend is not as good as a wise enemy.
434: Bombay is the best sea-port in India.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: No other seaport in India is as good as Bombay.
435: Disraeli was the greatest statesman of England.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: No other statesman of England was as great as Disraeli.
436: There are few districts as fertile as Hoshiarpur.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Very few districts are as fertile as Hoshiarpur.
437: Kalidasa is one of the greatest poets.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Very few poets are as great as Kalidasa.
438: Very few books are as popular as Dicken's David Copperfield.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Dicken's David Copperfield is one of the most popular books.
439: Gold is one of the most precious metals.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Very few metals are as precious as gold.
440: It is easier to speak than to act.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: To act is not as easy as to speak.
441: The train runs faster than a horse-cart.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: A horse cart does not run as fast a train.
442: He knows you better than I.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: I do not know you as much as he does.
443: He knows you better than me.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: He does not know me as much as he knows you.
444:  Of all men he is the meanest.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: No other man was as mean as he.
445: Let us see who runs fastest.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Let us see who runs slower between us.
446: He does his work more honestly than anybody else.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: No one does their work as honest as he does.
447: Few historians write as graphically as Macaulay.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Macaulay writes more graphically than most other historians.
448: John bowls faster than Jack.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Jack does not bowl as fast as John.
449: Ashoka was one of the noblest of Indian kings.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: Very few Indian kings were as noble as Asoka.
450: A live ass is better than a dead lion.  [ Change into positive degree]
a: A dead lion is not as good as a live ass.
451: Jim seemed more cheerful than any of his companions. [ Change into positive degree]
a: None of his companions seemed as cheerful as Jim.
452: As soon as the news of the fire broke out, everyone rushed to the spot. [Begin: No sooner…..]
a: No sooner did the news break out than everyone rushed to the spot.
453: Richard sat on a freshly painted chair. [Begin: the Chair…]
a: The chair that Richard sat on was freshly painted. 
454: This is the cruelest act I have ever seen. [Begin: Never…]
a: Never have i seen a crueler act.
a: Never have i seen a crueler act.
a: Never have i seen an act as cruel as this.
455: Even as a young artist, my aunt did not neglect her studies. [Use: when]
a: When my aunt was a young artist, she did not neglect her studies.
456: I found a ten rupee note in the book. [Change the voice] 
a: A ten rupee note was found by me in the book.
a: A ten rupee note was found in the book by me.
457: It was wrong on the part of political parties to blame the neighboring country. [Use: ought]
a: The neighbouring country should not have been blamed by the political parties.
a: The neighbouring country ought not have been blamed by the political parties.
458:  Being strong, Arul can lift the heavy suitcase.[ Use; so…. That]
a: Arul is so strong that he can lift the heavy suitcase.
459: “If you do not hurry, you will miss the bus.” My mother said. [Change into indirect speech]
a: My mother said that if I wouldn't hurry I would miss the bus.
460: The children failed to notice the teacher as she entered. [Change into a negative sentence]
a: The children did not notice the teacher enter the classroom.
a: The children did not succeed in noticing the teacher enter the classroom.
461: Only Rachel came to the birthday party. [Begin: None…..] 
a: None of them except Rachel came to the birthday party.
a: None except Rachel came to the birthday party.
462: “How do you dare to remain absent without leave?” said the teacher to the boy. (Begin with: The teacher asked the boy how ________)
a: The teacher asked the boy how he dared to remain absent without leave.
463: He has refused to help me. (Rewrite using ‘said’)
a: He said, "I refuse to help you."
464: Wordsworth was the greatest poet of Nature in English poetry. (Use: ‘greater’)
a: No other poet of Nature in English poetry was as great as Wordsworth.
465: Alexander the Great is considered as the greatest General of the world. (Use: ‘greater’)
a: No other general of the world was as great as Alexander the Great.
466: “I am sorry for insulting you,” said Lakshmi to Madhu. (Begin with: Lakshmi apologised……..)
a: Lakshmi apologized for insulting Madhu.
467: He said to his brother, “I go for a walk every morning.” (Change the speech)
a: He told his brother that he went for a walk every morning.
468: Tiger is the fastest animal in the world. (Use ‘faster’) 
a: No animal in the world is faster than a tiger.
a: There is no animal in the world faster than a tiger.
a: No animal in the world is faster than the tiger.
a: There is no animal in the world faster than a tiger.
469: The musician said to the sponsor, “I can give a programme next week.” (Begin: The musician told……)
a: The musician told the sponsor that he wanted to give a programme next week.
470: Very few countries are as densely populated as India. (use ‘most’)
a: India is the most densely populated country.
471: Gold is not as heavy as iron. (use ‘heavier’)
a: Iron is heavier than Gold.
472: The accused said to the magistrate, “Let me go now.” (Change into reported speech)
a: The accused pleaded to the magistrate to let him go then.
a: The accused pleaded with the magistrate to let him go.
a: The accused asked the magistrate to let him go.
473: Kelvinator is the best fridge in the market now a days. (Use “better”)
a: No fridge in the market now a days is as good as Kelvinator.
474: The teacher said to the students, “Sing loudly.” (Begin: The teacher asked……)
a: The teacher asked the students to sing loudly.
475: I have never met so famous a person as Amitabh. (Use ‘more’)
a: I have never met a person more famous than Amitabh.
476: Richa said to her friend, “My sister is listening to the radio while I am writing letters. (Begin with: Richa told…..)
a: Richa told her friend that her sister was listening to the radio while she was writing letters.
477: Delhi is one of the most populous cities in India. (Use: ‘more’) 
a: Few cities in India are more populous than Delhi.
478: The magistrate said to the lawyer, “You should submit your evidence now.” (Begin with: The magistrate told…….)
a: The magistrate told the lawyer to submit his evidence then.
a: The magistrate told the lawyer to submit his evidence.
479: Kalpana said to her friend, “Will you go to Radhika tomorrow?” (Change the narration) 
a: Kalpana asked her friend whether she would go to Radhika tomorrow.
480: The contractor said, “It has been raining since morning”. (Change into reported speech)
a: The contractor said that it had been raining since morning.
a: The contractor told that it had been raining since morning.
481: Pen is mightier than the sword. (Use: ‘mighty’) 
a: If you do not waste, you will not want.
482:  She said, “I am never going to believe you again.” (Begin: She said that…..) 
a: Your offer is acceptable to me.
483: I caught a train and went to Calcutta. (Use: ‘having’)
a: Having caught a train, I went to Calcutta.
484: One should keep one’s promises. (Begin with: Promises…….)
a: Having caught a train, I went to Calcutta.
485: The Principal is calling everyone from this class. [Begin: Everyone…]
a: Promises should be kept.
486: How kind a person Anurag is! [Begin: What…]
a: What a kind person Anurag is!
487: It was wrong on the part of the management to dismiss him. [Use: ought]
a: The management ought not have dismissed him.
488: Tokyo is the most expensive city in the world. [Begin: No other…]
a: No other city in the world is more expensive than Tokyo.
489: There were only a few coins in the purse that Seema lost. [Begin: The purse…]
a: The purse that Seema lost had only a few coins in it.
490: “ I do not think I can finish the work by today”, said the plumber.[Change the narration]
a: The plumber did not think he could finish the work by that day.
491: There is nothing more beautiful than the sunset. [Begin: Is….]
a: Is there anything as beautiful as the sunset!
a: Is there anything more beautiful than the sunset!
492: If you do not mend your ways, you will get into trouble. [Begin: Mend…]
a: Mend your ways and you will not get into trouble.
493: He is not a reckless driver. [ End: recklessly]
a: He does not drive recklessly.
494: She exclaimed that Kolkata is a very congested city. [Change into direct speech]
a: She said, "Kolkata is a very congested city!"
495: Very few foods are as healthy as milk. [ Change into superlative]
a: Milk is one of the most healthiest foods.
496: Andrew is the best cobbler in our town. [ Change into positive]
a:No other cobbler in our town is as good as Andrew.
497: Hyderabad is one of the cleanest cities in India. [ Use: clean]
a: No other city in India is as clean as Hyderabad.
498: A deer does not run as fast as a cheetah. [Begin: A cheetah…]
a: A cheetah runs faster than a deer.
499: No other poet is as popular as Shakespeare. [ Use: most]
a: Shakespeare is the most popular poet.
500: Mr. Ram came last of all for the meeting. [ Change into positive]
a: No one else came later than Mr. Ram for the meeting. 
501: Some monuments are perhaps more beautiful than the Taj. [Use: most]
a: The Taj is perhaps not the most beautiful monument.
502: People grew a lot of rubber in Malaysia. [Begin: A…]
a: A lot of rubber is grown in Malaysia.
503: He tried harder and harder but achieved less and less. [Begin: The….]
a: The harder he tried, the lesser he achieved.
504: “Shall I ask her to wait,” said Pamela. [Change into Reported Speech]
a: Pamela enquired whether she should ask her to wait.
a: Pamela asked whether she should ask her to wait.
505: It was so late that I could not attend the class. [Use: too]
a: It was too late for me to attend the class.
506: Prizes were being given by the Minister when the lights went out. [Change the voice]
a: The Minister was giving prizes when the lights went out.
507: If you had not advised me, I would have fallen into the trap. [Begin: But….]
a: But for your advice, I would have fallen into the trap.
508: I am coming with you. [Provide a suitable question tag]
a: I am coming with you, am I not?
509: This is the biggest elephant I have ever seen. [Use: big]
a: No other elephant I have ever seen is as big as this.
510: As soon as Rama starts to run the race, the crowd cheers her. [Begin: No sooner …]
a: No sooner does Rama start to run the race than the crowd cheers her.
511: Both the answers are wrong. [Begin: Neither….]
a: Neither of the answers are right.
a: Neither answer is right.
512: Neither John nor his friends ……… to blame. [Use: is/are]
a: Neither John nor his friends are to blame.
513: He is a principled man. [Use: principle]
a: He is a man of principle.
514: But for my help, she would not have succeeded. Begin: Had…]
a: Had I not helped her, she would not have succeeded.
515: If he apologizes, he will be pardoned. [Use: Unless…]
a: Unless he apologizes, he will not be pardoned. 
516: The teacher asked, “Will you confess your mistake?” [Change into indirect speech]
a: The teacher asked whether he would confess his mistake.
a: The teacher asked him whether he would confess his mistake.
517: Let the child not be disturbed. [Change into active voice]
a: Do not disturb the child.
518: Very few Prime Ministers are as scholarly as our Prime Minister. [change into superlative]
a: Our Prime Minister is one of the most scholarly Prime Ministers.
519: He is so ill that he cannot not attend the meeting. [Use: too]
a: He is too ill to attend the meeting.
520: The task was not pleasant. It was not easy either. [Combine the two sentences]
a: The task was neither pleasant nor easy.
521: The Principal is calling everyone from this class. [Begin: Everyone…]
a: Everyone from this class is being called by the Principal.
522: How kind a person Anurag is! [Begin: What…]
a: What a kind person Anurag is!
523: It was wrong on the part of the management to dismiss him. [Use: ought] 
a: The management ought not have dismissed him.
537: To Iqbal’s surprise, the office was closed. (Use: find)
a: To his surprise, Iqbal found the office closed.
538: The play I saw last week was better than this one. (Use: good)
a: This play is not as good as the one I saw last week.
539: She confessed that she had been very foolish. Begin: (She said…………………)
a: She said that she had been very foolish.
a: She said, "I have been very foolish."
540: He inquired of me if I knew the way.  Begin: He said to me, "…………
a: He said to me, "Do you know the way?"
541: He bade good-bye to his friends.He said, "………………………
a: He said, "Good-bye friends!"
542: Arun said, "The rain prevented me from coming to this place." Begin: Arun said that……………
a: Arun said that the rain prevented him from coming to this place.
543: The teacher said to the boys, "I shall prove now that the earth moves round the sun.  "Begin: The teacher told the boys……………….
a: The teacher told the boys that she would prove then that the earth moves round the sun.
544: She told me that she could easily beat me in singing. Begin: She said to me, "………….…….
a: She said to me, "I can easily beat you in singing."
546: Why did he deprive you of your property? Begin: Why were you ……..……..…….
a: Why were you deprived by him of your property?
547: No one ought ever to make so false an assumption.End: ……………ought never to be made. 
a: So false an assumption ought never to be made.
548: It is usually found that the trouble is caused by over-eating. Rewrite:……… …found that over-eating.
a: It is usually found that over-eating causes the trouble.
549: She came to my house in August last year. (Begin: The last…) 
a: The last year, she came to my house in August.
550: This is the wisest man I have ever seen. (Begin: Never…) 
a: Never have I ever seen a man as wise as him.
a: Never have I ever seen a man wiser than him.
551: The soldiers continued marching. (Change into a negative sentence)
a: The soldiers did not stop marching.
552: To avoid punishment, he ran away. (End…..punishment)
a: He ran away to avoid punishment.
553: Intelligent though he is, he acts childishly. (Begin: He is…..)
a: He is childish in his actions though he is is intelligent.
554: Sophia says, “It is warmer today than yesterday.” (Change into reported speech)
a: Sophia said that it was warmer that day than the day before.
a: Sophia said that it was warmer that day than the previous day.
555: Mohammed settled in the village where he was born. (Change into a simple sentence)
a: Mohammed settled in the village of his birth.
a: Mohammed was born and settled in the same village.
556: She did all she could do to persuade her husband to stop drinking but to no avail. (Begin: Nothing...)
a: Nothing she did to persuade her husband to stop drinking was of any avail.
557: Even as a young gifted artist, Annette did not neglect her studies. (Use: when) 
a: Even when she was a young gifted artist, Annette did not neglect her studies.
558: Cassius does not know the reason for Caesar’s success.  (Use: why)
a: Cassius did not know why Caesar was successful.
559: The thieves ran away when they heard the dogs bark. (Begin: Hearing…) 
a: Hearing the dogs bark, the thieves ran away.
560: Only the poor deserve the relief. (Begin: None…) 
a: None but the poor deserve the relief.
561: If you eat more, you will become sick. (Begin: The more…) 
a: The more you eat, the more you will become sick.
562: The teachers did not approve the mischief of the students.( Change the voice) 
a: The mischief of the students was not approved by the teachers.
a: The mischief of the students was not approved of by the teachers.
563: All hope the Summit will bring a relief to global warming.(Begin: It …) 
a: It is hoped by all that the Summit will bring a relief to global warming.
a: It is hoped by all that a relief to global warming will be brought by the Summit.
a: It is hoped that the Summit will bring a relief to global warming.
a: It is hoped that a relief to global warming will be brought by the Summit.
564: If I were you, Graham, I would call the doctor. (Begin: He advised…) 
a: He advised Graham to call a doctor.
565: That he achieved the goal gladdened him. (Use: the noun form 'achieve') 
a: That he could achieve the goal gladdened him. 
566: Though there was heavy security the mob looted the shops. (Begin: Despite…) 
a: Despite heavy security, the mob looted the shops.
567: I have never seen such a savage spectacle. (Begin: Never before…….) 
a: Never before have I seen such a savage spectacle.
568: Gita said, "Mohan, unless you catch a taxi, you will not reach Chennai today." (Change into Reported speech)
a: Gita told Mohan that unless he caught a taxi, he would not reach Chennai that day.
569: Students often find homework uninteresting. . (Begin with: It is …) 
a: It is often the case that students find homework uninteresting.
a: It is often that students find homework uninteresting.
570: Try again and you will solve the problem. (Begin with: Unless…)
a: Unless you try again, you will not solve the problem.
571: We shall hear Rafi’s voice no more. (Begin with: Alas! Rafi's voice…)
a: Alas! Rafi's goice shall be heard no more!
572: ‘I did not inform you of the test,’ said Kiran to Ravi. (Use: apologized)
a: Kiran apologized to Ravi for not informing her of the test.
573: Robert started to play cricket a year ago. (Begin with: Robert has …)
a: Robert has been playing cricket since a year.
574: Rama said to me, “I shall complete this work as soon as I can.” (Begin with: Rama told….)
a: Rama told me he should complete that work as soon as he could.
575: Meena is one of the tallest girls in the class. (Use: “taller”)
a: No other girl in the class is as tall as Meena.
576: My father told me that he had been working all day. (Begin with: My father said……)
a: My father said, "I have been working all day."
577: Shakespeare was the greatest dramatist of the world. (Use: ‘great’)
a: No other dramatist of the world was as great as Shakespeare.
578: Sudarshan said, “Mother, I have taken dinner”. (Begin: Sudarshan told…….)
a: Sudarshan told his Mother that he had taken dinner.
579: Harry Potter is the most popular character of child fiction. (Use: ‘more’)
a: No other character of child fiction is as popular as Harry Potter.
580: He said to me, “Time and tide waits for none.” (Begin with: He reminded……)
a: He reminded us that time and tide waited for none.
581: No other hill station in India is as beautiful as Darjeeling. (Use: ‘most beautiful’)
a: Darjeeling is the most beautiful hill station in India.
582: Robert said to his friend, “I have brought apples for you.” (Begin with: Robert told……)
a: Robert told his friend that he had brought apples for him.
583: The stranger said to the policeman, “Please show me the way to the medical store.” (Change into reported speech)
a: The stranger requested the policeman to show him the way to the medical store.
584: Put your tools away, people may fall over them. (Use: lest)
a: Put away your tools lest people fall over them.
585: Although she was too young, they appointed her. (Begin: In spite……………..)
a: In spite of her being too young, they appointed her.
586: “How beautiful the sunset looks tonight!” said Neelam. (Begin: Neelam exclaimed …………..)
a: Neelam exclaimed how beautiful the sunset looked that night.
587: She could not afford to buy the computer as she was poor. (Begin with: Being…) 
a: Being poor, she could not afford to buy the computer.
588: We have difficulty in saving money. (Begin: It ……..)
a: It is difficult for us to save money.
589: Hearing their father’s footsteps, the boys ran away. (Begin: The boys…)
a: The boys ran away when they heard their father’s footsteps. 
590: Only the brave deserve the reward. (Begin: None……)
a: None but the brave deserve the reward.
591: He owed his success to his teachers. (Begin: It….)
a: It was to his teachers that he owed his success.
592: It was so late that I could not attend the meeting. (Use: too)
a: It was too late for me to attend the meeting.
593: The librarian said, “How can you forget to return your books?” [Change the narration]
a: The librarian asked me how I could forget to return my books.
594: Start now or you will not arrive on time. (Begin: Unless...)
a: Unless you start now, you will not arrive on time.
595: It can be very interesting to listen to the radio. (Begin: Listening…)
a: Listening to the radio can be very interesting.
596: The thorn was removed. It was an extremely painful process. (Combine into a sentence)
a: The removal of the thorn was an extremely painful process.
597: As soon as the goal was scored, the team celebrated it. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner had the goal been scored than the team celebrated.
598: Rohan was taller than many other boys in the Basketball team. (Begin: Very few…..)
a: Very few boys in the Basketball team are as tall as Rohan.
599: The principal accepted the teachers’ proposal ultimately. (Use: ‘reject’)
a: The principal did not reject the teacher's proposal ultimately.
a: Ultimately, the principal did not reject the teacher's proposal.
600: Raji’s father is too truthful to take a bribe. (Remove: ‘too’)
a: Raji's father is so truthful that he cannot take a bribe.
601: As soon as I started to write, there was a power failure. (Use: ‘no sooner’)
a: No sooner did I start to write than there was a power failure.
602: Jim was admitted to this hostel two years ago. (Use: ‘admission’)
a: Jim took admission to this hostel two years ago.
a: Jim got admission to this hostel two years ago.
a: Jim gained admission to this hostel two years ago.
603: The news is too good to be true. (Remove: ‘too’)
a: The news is so good that it cannot be true.
604: As soon as the violence broke out, the spectators ran to the gate. (Use: no sooner’)
a: No sooner did the violence break out than the spectators ran to the gate.
605: The Chief Minister agreed with his minister’s the choice of action. (Use: ‘oppose’)
a: The Chief Minister did not oppose the minister's the choice of action.
606: Cassius received Antony coldly after Caesar’s assassination. (Use: ‘cold’)
a: Cassius gave Antony a cold reception after Caesar's assassination.
607: Sabetha is so gifted that she doesn’t need any guidance. (Use: ‘too’)
a: Sabetha is too gifted to need any guidance. 
608: As soon as the mob started hollering the slogans, the Minister fled the scene. (Use: ‘no sooner’)
a: No sooner did the mob start hollering the slogans than the Minister fled the scene.
609: Harry succeeded in the contest in the last try.(Use: ‘fail’)
a: Harry did not fail the contest in the last try.
610: The elephant does not intend to harm the bystanders.(Use: ‘intention’)
a: The elephant had no intention of harming the bystanders.
611: He is fortunate to have gained admission to a reputed university.(Begin with: Fortunately…..)
a: Fortunately for him, he has gained admission to a reputed university.
612: It was a rather frosty dawn. The mountaineers left their camp.(Rewrite as one sentence without using ‘and’)
a: It was a rather frosty dawn when the mountaineers left their camp.
613: As soon as the train reaches the station, the commuters jostle for their seats.(Begin with: No sooner……)
a: No sooner did the train reach the station than the commuters jostled for their seats.
614: Margaret was too slow to catch the pickpocket.(Rewrite using ‘so__that’)
a: Margaret was so slow that she could not catch the pickpocket.
615: The project will be finished by the team within a week.(Begin with: the team will…)
a: The team will finish the project within a week.
616: It is sad that the agitators turned vandals.(Begin with: How…..)
a: How sad is it that the the agitators turned vandals.
617: Sonia arrived after her brother had died.(Begin with: It was after….)
a: It was after her brother's death that Sonia arrived.
618: The coach always insists on a particular exercise every morning.(Rewrite using ‘fail’)
a: The coach never fails to insist on a particular exercise every morning.
619: Waste not, want not.(Begin with: ‘If’)
a: If you do not want, do not waste.
620: The company accepts your offer.(Use: ‘acceptable’)
a: The company finds your offer acceptable.
621: It is standard for an adult to eat three times a day.(Use: ‘normally’)
a: Normally, an adult eats three times a day.
622: The kids are very weak. They cannot jump the wall.(Combine the sentences)
a: The kids are very weak and cannot jump the wall.
a: The kids are too weak to jump the wall.
623: The mortality rates are decreasing. Many are health conscious.(Combine the sentences)
a: The mortality rates are decreasing because many are health conscious.
624: Wash your hand. You will not catch an infection.(Combine the sentences)
a: Wash your hand so that you will not catch an infection.
625: The profession of Teaching is demanding. It has its own delights.(Combine the sentences)
a: The profession of teaching is demanding but it has its own delights.
626: “You would better see the doctor, Judy,” Mark said. (Begin: Mark suggested….)
a: Mark suggested Judy to better see the doctor.
627: Usha plays tennis better than Kiran. (Begin: Kiran ……)
a: Kiran does not play tennis as good as Usha.
628: He is said to have been in the Indian Army. (Begin: People …)
a: People say that he had been in the Indian Army.
629:  I started work in the office a year ago. (Begin: I have been ……)
a: I have been working in the office since a year.
630: You remembered to sign the contract. ( use a question tag)
a: You remembered to sign the contract, didn't you?
631: As soon as he heard the news, he rushed to the hospital. (Change into a negative sentence)
a: He did not wait to rush to the hospital as soon as he heard the news.
632: The farmer said, “Let me have a good harvest.” (Change the narration)
a: The farmer hoped for a good harvest.
a: The farmer asked for a good harvest.
633: Rita didn’t apply for the job and she regrets it now. (Begin: Rita wishes ….)
a: Rita wishes she had applied for the job and regrets it now.
634: My friend is a good cricket player. He is also a good long distance runner.  [Use: Besides….]
a: Besides being a good cricket player, my friend is also a good long distance runner.
635: Who can forget the achievements of the freedom fighters? [Change into an assertive sentence.]
a: Can anyone forget the achievements of the freedom fighters?
636: To the best of my knowledge, he is vegetarian. (Begin: As far as ….)
a: As far as I know, he is a vegetarian. 
637: The train journey from Kolkata to Asansol takes three hours. (Begin: It is a ….)
a: It is a three-hour train journey from Kolkata to Asansol. 
638: The peon cannot leave unless I permit him. (Use: without)
a: The peon cannot leave without my permission. 
639: 'Kindly leave the bag here, Madam', said the porter. (Change the narration)
a: The porter requested the lady to leave the bag there. 
640: The tea is so hot that I cannot drink it. ( Remove: so….that)
a: The tea is too hot for me to drink. 
641: He was a poet as well as a statesman. (Combine to make a negative sentence)
a: Not only was he poet but also a statesman.  
642: As soon as the awards were announced, the winners walked to the podium. (Begin: No sooner…)
a: No sooner were the awards announced than the winners walked to the podium. 
643: No one came as late as Diana to the party. . (Change to superlative)
a: Diana was the last to come to the party. 
644: The thought of being alone terrified her. (change the voice)
a: She was terrified by the thought of being alone. 
645: Put your books aside, people may fall over them. (Use: lest)
a: Put your books aside away, lest people should fall over them.
646: The passing milkman informed the authorities of the breach in the watergates. (Begin: The authorities……)
a: The authorities were informed by the passing milkman of the breach in the watergates.
647: You have to pay the loan installments on time or your car will be taken back. (Begin: Unless….)
a:  Unless you pay the loan installments on time, your car will be taken back.
648: Mary does not play Tennis. Her brother Tony does not play tennis. (Begin: Neither…..)
a: Neither Mary nor her brother Tony play tennis.
649: The airport at the Hyderabad provides the passengers with the most excellent facility. (Begin: No other…..)
a: No other airport provides passengers with a facility as excellent as the airport at the Hyderabad.
650: As soon as the cargo arrives, it is taken into the warehouse. (Begin: No sooner…..)
a: No sooner did the cargo arrive than it was taken into the warehouse. 
651: Sheila told Shammed, “I am not sure that you will get the ticket for the film tomorrow. Can I ask my father to book a ticket for you today?” (Change into Indirect speech)
a: Sheila told Shammed that she was not sure that he would get the ticket for the film the next day and offered to ask her father to book a ticket for him the same day. 
652: Keep your mobile switched off so that it will not disturb the patients (Use: lest)
a:  Keep your mobile switche off lest it disturb the patients.
653: Although Brown stood first in the race, she was not happy with her performance. (Begin: Despite…..)
a: Despite standing first in the race, Brown was not happy with her performance. 
654: Remo was rushing to the office. He met his old friend Reena. (Combine the two sentences without using and or but)
a: Remo was rushing to the office when he met his old friend Reena.
655: You should have brought your brother for the party. (Provide an appropriate question tag)
a: You should have brought your brother for the party, shouldn't you?
656: He has a different opinion from others on this issue. (Use: ‘differently’)
a: He thinks differently from others on this issue.
657: Her attitude shows that she is a bold girl. (Use: ‘timid’)
a: Her attitude shows that she is not a timid girl.
658: Anila was so frightened that she could not study in her room. (Use: ‘too’)
a: Anila was too frightened to study in her room.
659: The puzzle was too difficult for Meenakshi to solve. (Use: ‘so’)
a: The puzzle was so difficult that Meenakshi could not solve it.
660: Sahil showed generosity even to his  enemies. (Use: ‘generous’)
a: Sahil was generous even to his enemies.
661: I have never seen a film as bad as this. (Being: This is...)
a: This is the worst film I have ever seen.
662: Every one of them was an experienced mountaineer. (Begin: There was no...)
a: There was no one among them who was not an experienced mountaineer.
663: I have never seen a film as bad as this. (Begin: This is....)
a: This is the worst film I have ever seen.
664: Arun gave Ramesh some excellent advice (Begin: Ramesh was...)
a: Ramesh was given some excellent advice by Arun.
665: As soon as Sania sat down to study, the lights went off. (Begin: No sooner...)
a: No sooner had Sania sat down to study than the lights went off.
666: Has Alia written to you? (Begin: Have you....)
a: Have you ever been written to by Alia?
667: As soon as the function got over. The crowd dispersed. (Begin: Hardly had...)
a: Hardly had the function got over than the crowd dispersed.
668: The monsoon is the best season in our country. (Rewrite using 'good')
a: No other season in our country is as good as the monsoon.
669: Harish was so tired that he could not keep his eyes open. (Begin: Harish was too...)
a: Harish was too tired to keep his eyes open.
670: Father said to Sunil, "I can help you with your homework." (Begin: Father told Sunil....)
a: Father told Sunil that he could help him with his homework.
671: Naresh goes to school which has over a thousand students. (Begin: There...)
a: There are over a thousand students in the school Naresh goes to.
a; There are over a thousand students at the school Naresh goes to.
672: As soon as we lit the candle, the power supply was restored. (Begin: No sooner....)
a: No sooner we lit the candle than the power supply was restored.
673: The bee is more industrious than all other creatures. (Use 'most industrious')
a: The bee is the most industrious of all creatures.
a: The bee is the most industrious creature.
674: The old woman was too slow to catch the bus. (Begin: The old woman was so....)
a: The old woman was so slow that she could not catch the bus.
675: "I'll do it tomorrow" he promised. (Rewrite in indirect speech)
a: He promised to do it the next day.
a: He promised that he would do it the next day.
676: Though Reema got an expensive gift she was not happy. (Begin: In spite....)
a: Inspite of getting an expensive gift, Reema was not happy.
677: I prefer reading a book to watching a movie. (Begin: I would rather....)
a: I would rather read a book than watch a movie.
678: I have never seen Mr. Roy lose his temper. (Begin: Never...)
a: Never have I seen Mr. Roy lose his temper.
679: She found your keys in the garbage. (Begin: The keys....)
a: The keys were found in the garbage.
680: These windows need cleaning again. (Begin: These windows will....)
a: These windows will have to be cleaned again. 
681: My mother said I could go with you only if I returned home by five o'clock. (Use: as long as)
a: My mother said I could go with you, as long as I returned home by five o'clock.
682: It doesn't matter which chemical you put into the mixture first, the results will be the same. (Use: difference)
a: It doesn't make any difference which chemical you put into the mixture first, the results will be the same.
a: It doesn't make a difference which chemical you put into the mixture first, the results will be the same.
683: Who does this pen belong to? (Begin: Do you know....)
a: Do you know to whom does this pen belong?
a: Do you know to whom this pen belongs?
684: Heavy rain has caused the cancellation of the outdoor garden party. (Begin: Due....)
a: Due to heavy rain, the outdoor garden party has been cancelled.
685: I've never seen so many people in this building before. (Begin: This is.....)
a: This is the first time I am seeing so many people in this building.
686: If we light the fire, the rescuers will see us. (Begin: We will.....)
a: We will be seen by the rescuers if we light the fire.
687: Only a few books were remaining on the shelf when we left. (Begin: Most...)
a: Most of the books on the shelf were not there when we left.
688: My mother left a month ago. (Begin: It has....)
a: It has been a month since my mother left.
689: Anil was wrong to lose his temper. (Begin: Anil ought...)
a: Anil ought not to lose his temper.
a: Anil ought not have lost his temper.
690: As soon as the Chief Guest has seated himself the play began. (Begin: No sooner....)
a: No sooner had the Chief Guest seated himself then the play began.
691: Rajiv said to Arjun, "Is this the book you were reading yesterday ?" (Begin: Rajiv asked Arjun if.....)
a: Rajiv asked Arjun if that was the book he had been reading the previous day.
692: Only a foolish person would be taken in by this trick. (Begin: None....)
a: None but a foolish person would be taken in by this trick.
693: Everyone has heard of Gandhiji. (Begin: Who....)
a: Who has not heard of Gandhiji?
694: He will issue the cheque only if he hears from the head office. (Begin: On....)
a: On hearing from the head office only, he will issue the cheque.
695: Father will send you a message if his flight is cancelled. (Begin: Should...)
a: Should father's flight be cancelled, he will send you a message.
696: This horse is better trained than yours. (Begin: Your horse......)
a: Your horse is not as well trained as this one.
a: Your horse is not trained as good as this one.
a: Your horse is not trained as well as this one.
697: The children will sit out in the garden, if the weather is cool. (Begin: The children won't..)
a: The children won't sit out in the garden unless the weather is cool.
698: The thief ran so fast that the police could not catch him. (Rewrite using: too)
a: The thief ran too fast for the police to catch.
a: The thief ran too fast for the police to catch him.
699: Her attitude often annoys me. (Rewrite using: annoyance...)
a: Her attitude is often cause of annoyance to me.
a: Her attitude is often a cause of annoyance to me.
a: Her attitude often causes annoyance to me.
a: Her attitude often causes me annoyance.
700: The child disappeared as soon as the bus stopped. (Begin: Hardly....)
a: Hardly had the bus stopped, when the children disappeared.
701: There is no success without effort. (Begin: Whenever....)
a: Whenever you make an effort, you get success.
702: "Please teach me to cycle" she asked her brother. (Rewrite in indirect form)
a: She requested her brother to teach her to cycle.
703: The peasants regarded him as a thief and called him a villain. (End: ...the peasants)
a: He was regarded as a thief and called a villain by the peasants.
704: Unless Ria takes care of her health, she will not be able to look after her family. (Begin: Ria must....)
a: Ria must take care of her health in order to be able to look after her family.
705: His arrogance was the cause of losing the election. (Rewrite the sentence using "arrogant")
a: As he was arrogant, he lost the election.
706: If you are not a member you cannot borrow books. (Begin: Only.....)
a: Only if you are a member can you borrow books.
707: It is a pity our vacation is not longer. (Begin: I wish....)
a: I wish our vacation was longer.
708: Raju did not complete the exercise on time. (Rewrite by adding question tag)
a: Raju did not complete the exercise on time, did he?
709: Rohan was so terrified of being left alone in the house that he started screaming. (Begin: So...)
a: So terrified was Rohan of being left alone in the house that he started screaming.
710: The teacher asked, "How many of you think the answer is correct ?" (Rewrite the sentence using indirect speech)
a: The teacher asked us how many of us thought the answer was correct.
711: Sunil is the fastest runner in the school. (End: .....as Sunil)
a: No runner in the school was as fast as Sunil.
712: Study hard now or you will regret it. (Begin: Unless....)
a: Unless you study hard now, you will regret. 
713: The boy asked, "Why are you lying on the road in this manner ?" (Begin: The boy asked why he....)
a: The boy asked me why he was lying on the road in that manner.
714: Megha is too tall to crawl under the table. (Begin: Megha is so....)
a: Megha is so tall that she cannot crawl under the table.
715: He arrived in school on time even though he stopped for a bite on the way. (Use 'inspite of' instead of even though)
a: Inspite of being stopped for a bite on the way, he arrived in school on time.
716: She opened the kitchen door and a cockroach ran out. (End with 'cockroach')
a: As she opened the kitchen door, she saw a running cockroach.
717: Arjun was a better speaker than his brother. (Begin: His brother....)
a: His brother is not as good a speaker as his brother.
718: Asha missed her examination because of her illness (Begin: Her illness...)
a: Her illness was the reason for Asha missing her examination.
719: As soon as the curtain came down the applause rang out. (Begin: No sooner...)
a: No sooner the curtain came down than the applause rang out.
720: "Have you walked alone, this long distance today ?" he asked Sumita. (Begin: He asked Sumita if....)
a: He asked Sunita if she had walked alone, that long distance that day.
721: The detective interrogated the suspect closely for over three hours. (Begin: The suspect.....)
a: The suspect was interrogated closely for over three hours by the detective.
722: I suddenly realized that the room was too small for the three of us to share. (Begin: I suddenly realized that the room was so....)
a: I suddenly realized that the room was so small that three of us could not share it.
723: Inspite of all her efforts, Susan did not succeed. (Begin: Despite....)
a: Despite her efforts, Susan did not succeed.
724: As soon as the bell rang, the children rushed out of class. (Begin: No sooner....)
a: No sooner did the bell ring than the children rushed out of the class.
725: Sachin stood first in class and he also excelled at debate. (Begin: Not only....)
a: Not only did Sachin stand first in class, but he also excelled at debate.
726: She was the only person capable of being House Captain. (Use: capability)
a: She was the only person who had capability of being house captain.
727: Rohan was the tallest boy in the basketball team. (Rewrite using: taller)
a: No other boy in the basketball team was taller than Rohan.
728: As soon as the Chief Guest arrived, the band started playing. (Begin: No sooner....)
a: No sooner did the Chief Guest arrive than the band started playing.
a: No sooner had the Chief Guest arrived than the band started playing.
729: He went to the library and the bank. (Begin: Not only....)
a: Not only did he go to the library but also to the bank.
730: Though he is very poor, he helps others in need. (Begin: Inspite....)
a: Inspite of his being very poor he helps others in need.
a: Inspite of being very poor he helps others in need.
731: He does not intend to leave the company. (Use: intention)
a: He does not carry the intention of leaving the company.
a: His intention is not to leave the company.
732: "Do you want some more ice-cream or a slice of cake ?" asked my aunt. (Begin: My aunt asked....)
a: My aunt asked me if I wanted some more ice-cream or a slice of cake.
a: My aunt asked me whether I wanted some more ice-cream or a slice of cake.
733: They are painting to mural on the front wall. (Begin: A mural....)
a: A mural is being painted on the front wall by them.
734: Tansen was the best singer in Akbar's court. (Use: Better...)
a: Tansen was better than any other singer in Akbar's court.
a: Tansen was better than many other singers in Akbar's court.
735: You didn't forget to buy a loaf of bread, did you?
a: Did you forget to buy a loaf of bread?
736: Jasdeep has probably forgotten his mother's birthday. (Begin: In....)
a: In all probability Jagdeep has forgotten his mother's birthday.
737: Mr.Sharma advised the children not to go out in the cold. (End: "........", said Mr.Sharma)
a: "Children do not go out in the cold" , said Mr.Sharma.
738: For more information please contact the secretary of the club. (Begin: Should....)
a: Should you need more information, contact the Secretary of the club.
739: He could not take part in the singing competition as he had a sore threat. (Use: preventing)
a: He was prevented from taking part in the singing competition due to his sore throat.
740: Ritika returned to school a week ago. (Begin: It has been....)
a: It has been a week since Ritika returned to school.
741: She was beautiful and humble. (Begin: Not only....)
a: Not only was she beautiful but also humble.
742: Both the players are not adequately prepared for the tournament. (Begin: Neither....)
a: Neither of the players are adequately prepapre for the tournament.
743: A fragrant flower is the loveliest creation of nature. (Begin: No other....)
a: No other creation of nature is as lovely as a fragrant flower.
744: Amazing discoveries have been made by explorer. (Begin: Explorers...)
a: Explorers have made amazing discoveries.
745: The team consisted of six batsmen, four bowlers and a wicket keeper. (Use: 'comprised')
a: The team comprised of six batsmen, four bowlers and a wicket keeper.
746: Unfortunately, he failed in the first attempt. (Use: 'succeed' instead of failed)
a: Unfortunately he could not succeed in the first attempt.
747: This should be of the greatest value to mankind. (Begin: Nothing....)
a: Nothing should be of greater value to mankind than this.
748: The boy was ill. He went to school. (Combine both the sentences using 'though')
a: Though the boy was ill, he went to school.
749: Do the believe in the existence of God? (End: 'exists')
a: Do they believe that God exists.
750: Who replaced the player after he was injured? (Use: 'substitute' instead of 'replaced')
a: Who substituted the player after he was injured?
751: It has not only lengthened life but has deepened its quality. (Begin: Besides.....)
a: Besides deepening its quality but it has also lengthened life.
752: She said, "I am never going to believe you again." (Begin: She said that....)
a: She said that she was never going to believe her again.
753: The price of milk has risen recently. (End: 'milk')
a: Recently there is a rise in price of milk.
754: Why did Radha skip the match? (Change the voice)
a: Why was the match skipped by Radha?
755: "Did you understand the passage clearly taught yesterday?" the teacher asks. (Begin: The teacher asked....)
a: The teacher asked whether I had understood the passage the previous day.
756: He snatched the badminton from him and scored a point. (Begin: Not only....)
a: Not only did he snatch the badminton from him but also scored a point.
757: The grounds were too damaged to conduct the match. (Use: so ...that)
a: The grounds were so damaged that it was not possible conduct the match.
758: Though skilled in commerce, he was not taken to the examination (Begin: Despite....)
a: Despite being skilled in accounting, he was not admitted to the examination.
759: As soon as the match started, the crowd turned depressed. (Begin: No sooner....)
a: No sooner did the match start than the crowd turned depressed.
760: ‘The Ruskin Bond’ is one of the best films released this year. (Use: good)
a: No other film released this year is as good as 'The Ruskin Bond'
761: He saw the bat rushing towards him and leaped aside. (Begin: Having......)
a: Having seen the bat rushing towards him, he leaped aside.
762: We reached the house but could not find what we were looking for (End: ...house)
a: We could not find what we were looking for although we reached the house.
763: "Are you sure this man in the green shirt is our new teacher?" Jack asked Ben. (Begin: Jack....)
a: Jack asked Ben whether he was sure that the man in the green shirt was their new teacher.
764: You can stay in this room until someone wants to use it. (Begin: As long as....)
a: As long as someone does not want to use this room, you can stay in  it.
765: Both the answers are wrong. (Begin: Neither...)
a: Neither of the answers are right.
766: He is too young to travel alone. (Remove: too)
a: He is so young that he cannot travel alone.
767: You need patience to learn how to speak a new language. (Begins: In order...)
a: In order to speak a new language, you need patience.
768: She will never learn to be polite. (Change into interrogative)
a: Will she ever learn to be polite?
769: He said, "I was writing a letter." (Write in reported speech)
a: He said that he was writing a letter.
770: I have never seen such a mess. (Begin: never)
a: Never have I seen such a mess.
771: He had hardly sat down to rest when someone knocked on the door. (Begin: hardly)
a: Hardly had I sat down to rest when someone knocked on the door.
772: It is not compulsory that you should attempt all questions. (Rewrite using need not)
a: You need not attempt all questions.
773: You are obliged to obey your parents. (Rewrite using 'ought to')
a: You ought to obey your parents.
774: It is necessary for him to attend the meeting. (Rewrite using must.)
a: He must attend the meeting.
775: We are interested in your offer, and we would be glad to have prices as soon as possible. (Insert indeed)
a: We are indeed interested in your offer, and we would be glad to have prices as soon as possible.
776: Gandhi is one of the greatest men of the world. (Insert indeed)
a: Gandhi is indeed one of the greatest men of the world.
777: As soon as she heard the news she fainted. (Rewrite using ‘No sooner ...than’)
a: No sooner did she hear the news than she fainted.
778: I had hardly closed my eyes when the telephone rang. (Begin with hardly.)
a: Hardly had I closed my eyes when the telephone rang.
780: The tea was so hot that I could not drink it. (Change into a simple sentence)
a: The tea was too hot for me to drink. 
781: He is too arrogant to listen to advice. (Change into a complex sentence)
a: He is so arrogant that he will not listen to advice.
782: He worked hard that he might pass the examination. (Change into a simple sentence)
a: He worked hard to pass the examination.
783: He is too stupid to handle such a difficult situation. (Remove too)
a: He is so stupid that he cannot handle such a situation.
784: John is the tallest boy in the class. (Use the comparative form of the adjective)
a: John is taller than any other boy in the class.
785: I could not do it even if I tried. (Change into a simple sentence)
a: Despite trying, I could not do it.
786: No sooner did I hear the gunshot than I rushed to the spot. (Rewrite using as soon as.)
a: As soon as I heard the gunshot I rushed to the spot.
787: Hardly had I solved one problem when another cropped up. (Rewrite using no sooner ...than)
a: No sooner had I solved one problem than another cropped up.
788: Only trained graduates need to apply. (Use none instead of only)
a: None but trained graduates need to apply.
789: Work hard or you will fail. (Change into a complex sentence)
a: If you do not work hard, you will fail.
790: People speak English all over the world. (Begin the sentence with ‘English’.)
a: English is spoken all over the world. 
791: The police have arrested the thief. (Begin with ‘The thief’.)
a: The thief has been arrested by the police.
792: Both men and women are watching the show. (Begin with ‘The show’.)
a: The show is being watched by both men and women.
793: People play football all over the world. (Begin with ‘Football’.)
a: Football is played all over the world.
794: The boys were singing the national anthem. (Begin with ‘The national anthem’)
a: The national anthem was being sung by the boys.
795: Our team will certainly win the match. (Begin with ‘The match’.)
a: The match will certainly be won by our team.
796: They haven’t announced the news yet. (Begin with ‘The news’.)
a: The news hasn’t been announced yet.
797: Students are to write the answers on both sides of the paper. (Begin with ‘The answers’.)
a: The answers are to be written on both sides of the paper.
798: His supporters have always admired him. (Begin with ‘He’)
a: He has always been admired by his supporters.
799: The contractor is fixing the roof. (Begin with ‘The roof’.)
a: The roof is being fixed by the contractor.
800: I was not sure that it was you.  (Use doubtful instead of sure)
a: I was doubtful that it was you.
801: She complained that the room was too hot. (Begin : She complained of ................. )
a: She complained of the room being too hot.
802: He couldn't seem to get out of the habit. (Begin : He seemed ....................)
a: He seemed to be unable to get out of the habit.
803: What long hair you have? (End with : ............... is)
a: How long your hair is!
804: Please read this and see if there are any mistakes. (Use go in place of read.)
a: Please go through this and see if there are any mistakes.
805: The station bus is coming.  (end with : ............ bus.)
a: Here comes the station bus.
806: I don't know how you tolerated him for so long. (Use put instead of tolerated.)
a: I don't know how you put up with him for so long.
808: He is fortunate to have won the prize. (Begin : Fortunately ......... )
a: Fortunately, he has won the prize.
809: It was quite dark. They came back home. (Rewrite as one sentence without using 'and)
a: It was quite dark and they came back home.
810: As soon as the newspaper reaches the stands it is sold out. (Begin : No sooner ...............)
a: No sooner had the newspaper reached the stands, than it was sold out.
811: Mohan was too slow to catch the thief. (Rewrite using "so ...... ... that")
a: Mohan was so slow that he could not catch the thief.
812: The assignment will be completed by me within a month. (Begin. : I will .............)
a: I will complete the assignment within a month.
813: Cleopatra is the most famous Egyptian queen. (Begin : No other ................)
a: No other Egyptian queen is as famous as Cleopatra.
814: It is sad that you are leaving the town . (Begin : How ................!)
a: How sad is it that you are leaving the town.
815: The son arrived after his mother had died. (Begin : It was after ...............)
a: It was after his mother died that the son arrived.
816: My father always goes for a walk every morning. (Rewrite using 'fail')
a: My father never fails to go for a walk every morning.
817: The judge punished the guilty.  (Begin : The guilty ............ )
a: The guilty was punished by the judge.
818: Suresh suddenly thought of a splendid idea. (End: ......... to Suresh.)
a: A splendid idea suddenly occurred to Suresh.
819: Raunak missed the bus because he was late. (Use: .......... . catch.)
a: Raunak 
820: Sheena returned one week ago. (Begin: It has .............)
a: It has been one week since Sheena returned.
821: "I am sorry for insulting you," said Lakshmi to Madhu. (Begin: Lakshmi apologized ......... )
a: Lakshmi apologized for insulting Madhu.
822: He could not complete the race as he had injured his foot. (Use: prevented.)
a: He was prevented from completing the race by his injured foot.
823: His unexpected victory surprised everybody in the school. (Begin: His unexpected victory took .................)
a: His unexpected victory took everybody in the school by surprise.
824: Nobody in our city can run as fast as Usha. (Begin: Usha .................)
a: Usha is the fastest runner in our city.
825: Joe requested his friend to wait there till he returned.  (End: .................. till I return.")
a: Joe said to his friend, "Wait here till I return."
826: He was the wisest man present. (Use 'wiser')
a: No other man was wiser than him.
827: After John had finished his supper, his mother sent him to bed. (Begin : Having ...........)
a: Having finished his supper, John was sent by his mother to bed.
828: She told me that her father was ill. (Use 'of' instead of 'that'.)
a: She told me of her father's illness.
a: She told me of her father being ill.
829: The package was too heavy to carry.  (End with : carried)
a: The package was too heavy to be carried.
830: Do not be deceived by his polite manner. (Use taken in, in place of deceived).
a: Do not be taken in by his polite manner.
831: We did not need to hurry. (Begin : It .............)
a: It is not necessary for us to hurry.
832: Smoking is forbidden here.  (Begin : You ...........)
a: You are forbidden to smoke here. 
833: Your essay needs correcting. (Use corrected instead of correcting.)
a: Your essay needs to be corrected.
834: He insists on our apologising. (End with : ......... apologise.)
a: He insists that we must apologise.
a: He insists that we apologize.
835: John has probably forgotten the date of the examination. (Begin: In ..............................)
a: In all probability, John has forgotten the date of the examination.
836: Very few countries are as large as India. (Use: 'larger')
a: India is one of the most largest countries.
837: The sergeant asked: 'Did you have any training before'? (Rewrite using: 'whether' or 'if")
a: The sergeant asked whether I had any training before.
a: The sergeant asked if I had any training before.
838: If you don't come, I will not go out. (Begin: Only ..........)
a: Only if you come will I go out.
839: He sold his house to a wealthy diamond magnate. (Rewrite using 'bought' instead of 'sold'.)
a: His house was bought by a wealthy diamond magnate.
840: The thieves stole everything from the merchant and left him for dead. (Begin: Having .....................................)
a: Having stolen everything from the merchant, the thieves left him for dead.
841: Prerna consulted her parents before accepting the job offer. (Begin: Prerna did not ............................)
a: Prerna did not forget to consult her parents before accepting the job offer.
842: The driver lost his job because of rash driving. (Begin: If the driver .......................)
a: If the driver had not driven rashly, he would not have lost his job.
843: Very few doctors in the hospital are as dedicated as he is. (Begin: He is .....................................)  
a: He is one of the most dedicated doctors in the hospital. 
844: The Principal dealt with the miscreants firmly. (Begin: The Principal was ................)
a: The Principal was firm in dealing with the miscreants.
845: He really likes correcting her English.    ( use pleasure)
a: He takes pleasure in correcting her English. 
846: It’s not necessary to take a lot of luggage when going on holiday. (use Much)
a: You don't have to take much luggage when going on holiday.
a: You needn't take much luggage when going on holiday.
a: You don't need much luggage when going on holiday.
847: Perhaps he hasn’t received the doctor’s results yet.    ( use may)
a: He may not have received the doctor's results yet.
848: All I want you to do is to look after my dog.  ( use care) 
a: All I want you to do is to take care of my dog.
849: She was not certain about the trip ( use decide)
a: She could not decide about the trip.
850: He locked the gate so that the dog wouldn’t escape.    ( use prevent)
a: He locked the gate to prevent the dog from escaping.
a: He locked the gate to prevent the dog escaping.
851: They did not like to pay extra taxes.  ( use objected)
a: They objected to paying extra taxes.
852: The day was so nice that we went on a picnic.  ( use such)
a: It was such a nice day that we went on a picnic.
853: The only person I didn’t see was Jane. ( use except)
a: I saw everyone except Jane.
854: She decided to visit her friend and tell her the news. ( use drop)
a: She decided to drop in on her friend and tell her the news.
855: It wasn’t necessary to meet me at the airport yesterday.   ( use needn’t )
a: You needn't have met me at the airport yesterday.
856: It was unkind of you to talk to her like that. ( use not)
a: It was not kind of you to talk to her like that.
857: I saw the film although I strongly dislike thrillers.   ( use spite)
a: I saw the film in spite of my strong dislike of thrillers.
858: It’s not possible to play tennis because of the rain.  ( use makes)
a: The rain makes it impossible to play tennis.
859: I’ve never tasted such good food before.   ( use ever)
a: It is the best food I've ever tasted.
860: Do your parents allow you to watch TV late at night?    ( use let)
a: Do your parents let you watch TV late at night?
861: ”Did you write a note for Anna?” I asked my mother. ( use she)
a: I asked my mother whether she had written a note for Anna.
a: I asked my mother if she had written a note for Anna.
862: He gave me the money first, and then he left.   ( use after )
a: He left after he gave me the money.
a: He left after he had given me the money.
863: I don’t find it difficult to get up early any more. ( use used)
a: I am used to getting up early now.
864: We have to reduce our expenses. ( use cut )
a: We have to cut down on our expenses.
865: “Can you please explain this to me?” she asked the teacher. ( use if)
a: She asked the teacher if she could explain that to her.
866: Perhaps he’s working late.  ( use may)
a: He may be working late.
867: Nobody ever told me about it.   ( use never)
a: I was never told about it.
a: I was never told about it by anybody.
868: “I’ll pick him up from the airport,” she said.  ( use offered)
a: She offered to pick him up from the airport.
869: I was so shocked that I couldn’t react. ( use wasn’t)
a: I wasn't calm enough to react.
870: People say Greek is a difficult language to learn.  ( use said)
a: Greek is said to be a difficult language to learn.
a: It is said that Greek is a difficult language to learn.
871: The police have investigated the crime. ( use by)
a: He may be working late.
872: Without your help, I would never have managed.  ( use you )
a: She asked the teacher if she could explain that to her.
873: The manager made the employees stay late.   ( use made)
The employees were made to stay late by the manager.
874: When can their glory fade?  ( use never)
a: Their glory can never fade.
875: He goes home. (Change into Negative) 
a: He does not go home.
876: I am as strong as he (Change into Comparative) 
a: He is not stronger than me.
877: He can do this work. (Change into Interrogative)
a: Can he do this work?
878: How beautiful is the night! (Change into assertive)
a: The night is very beautiful.
879: He knows the bad man. (Change into Complex) 
a: He knows the man who is bad. 
880: She lives comfortably. (Change into Noun) 
a: She lives in comfort.
881: No other metal is as useful as iron. (Change into Superlative) 
a: Iron is the most useful of all metals.
882: His ambition is to serve the country. (Change into Complex) 
a: His ambition is that he should serve his country.
883: These mangoes are too cheap to be good. (Remove too) 
a: These mangoes are so cheap that they cannot be good. 
884: She is your friend. (Change into Negative) 
a: She is not your enemy. 
885: He treated me cruelly. (Change into Adjective) 
a: He was cruel to me. 
886: He said that he was coming. (Change into Simple) 
a: He told of his coming. 
887: That razor is not so sharp as this one. (Change into Comparative) 
a: This razor is sharper than that one. 
888: He was too weak to walk. (Remove too) 
a: He was so weak that he could not walk. 
889: This news gave her pleasure. (Change into Verb) 
a: This news pleased her. 
890: s he not an honest man ? (Change into Assertive) 
a: He is an honest man. 
891: He must weep or he will die. (Change into Simple) 
a: He must weep to escape death. 
892: Bangalore is the most beautiful city in India. (Change into Comparative) 
a: Bangalore is more beautiful than any other city in India. 
893: We eat to live. (Change into Complex) 
a: We eat so that we may live. 
894: Mumbai is one of the richest towns in India. (Change into Positive) 
a: Very few towns in India are as rich as Mumbai.
895: 22. This coffee is too cold for me. (Remove too) 
a: This coffee is so cold that I cannot take it. 
896: How fast she runs ! (Change into Assertive) 
a: She runs very fast. 
897: Man is mortal. (Change into Negative) 
a: Man is not immortal. 
898: He knows that the earth is round. (Change into Compound). 
a: The earth is round and he knows it. 
899: Brutus loved Caesar. (Change into Nagative) 
a: Brutus did not hate Caesar. 
900: He will be rewarded as he stands second. (Change into Simple) 
a: He will be rewarded because of standing second. 
901: What if I pass this year ! (Change into Assertive) 
a: It does not matter if I pass this year.
902: She was too proud to beg. (Remove too) 
a: She was so proud that she could not beg.
903: Sohan writes more legibly than all other boys of his class. (Change into Positive) 
a: No other boy of Sohan’s class writes so legibly as he.
904: As soon as the chairperson arrived the board meeting commenced. (Begin: Barely…..)
a: Barely had the chairperson arrived then the board meeting commenced.
905: In spite of having scarce resources, Rani Lakshmibai fought bravely against the Mughals. ( Use: Though)
a: Rani Laxmibai fought bravely against the Mughals though she had scarce resources.
906: We never imagined that he would win the election. ( Begin: Little)
a: Little did we imagine that he would win the election.
907: Spend your time judiciously; otherwise you may fail in the examination. ( Use: Lest)
a: Spend your time judiciously lest you fail in the examination.
908: Very few musicians are as creative as  Mr A R Rahman. (Begin: Mr A R Rahman…..)
a: A R Rahman is one of the most creative musicians.
909: It is a pity that I did not take my father’s advice. (Use: wish)
a: I wish I had not taken my father's advice.
910: He left Ranchi two weeks ago after completing his thesis. (Begin: It has been…….)
a: It has been two weeks since he left Ranchi after completing his thesis.
911: He said, “What have you done to pacify your parents?” (Begin: He asked…….)
a: He asked me what I had done to pacify my parents.
a: He asked him what he had done to pacify his parents.
a: He asked her what she had done to pacify her parents.
912: The police are expecting to make an arrest shortly. ( Begin: It is...................)
a: It is expected that the police will make an arrest shortly.
913: He was so old that he could be my grandfather. (Begin: He was old enough............)
a: He was old enough to be my grandfather.
914: She frowned only once. (Begin: Only.......)
a: Only once did she frown.
915: No sooner had the judge considered all the facts than he gave the verdict . (Begin: As soon as .......)
a: As soon as the judge had considered all the facts, he gave the verdict.
916: You surprise me. (Begin: I am  ................)
a: I am surprised by you.
917: I wish I had met you five years ago. (Begin : How I..............)
a: How I wish I had met you five years ago.
918: Not many people listen to the radio these days. (Begin: Few.........................)
a: Few people listen to radio these days.
919: Although it was a sunny day, it was very cold. (Begin: Despite.........................)
a: Despite it being a sunny day, it was very cold.
920: My friend's construction company is building a dam across this river. (Begin: Dam.....)
a:  A dam is being built across this river by my friend’s construction company.
921: They all felt the tremor a few minutes after the actual earthquake happened. (Begin: The tremor....)
a: The tremor was felt by them a few minutes after the actual earthquake happened.
922: She has played the lead role in the play. (Begin: The lead role.....)
a: The lead role in that play has been played by her.
923:  Many of my friends living abroad write to me very short letters. (Begin: Very short letters.....)
a: Very short letters are written by many of my friends living abroad.
924: My father was teaching some poor students from the nearby villages. (Begin: Some poor students....)
a: Some poor students from the nearby villages were being taught by my father.
925: She had asked him the question many times. (Begin: The question....)
a: The question had been asked to him many times by her.
926: We will finish most of next year’s work by the end of this year. (Begin: Most of next year's...)
a: Most of next year’s work will be finished by us by the end of the year.
927: She will have finished her lessons three years from now. (Begin: Her lessons.....)
a: Her lessons will have been finished by her three years from now.
928: We feel that incidents such as this should not happen again. (Begin: It...)
a: It is felt that incidents such as this should not happen again.
929: He was running very fast. (Use: speed)
a: He was running at a great speed.
930: This idea interested me. (Use: interest)
a: This idea was of interest to me.
931: My friend is wealthy enough to start a new business. (Use: wealth)
a: My friend has enough wealth to start a new business. 
932: We do not listen to their suggestions. (Use: suggest)
a: We do not listen to what they suggest. 
933: They arrived earlier than usual. (Use: arrival)
a: Their arrival was earlier than usual. 
934: This old man is very wise. (Use: wisdom)
a: This old man has great wisdom.
935: I loved them so much. (Use: love)
a: I gave them so much love.
936: It takes good communication skills for your speech to be brief. (Use: brevity)
a: It takes good communication skills for your speech to have brevity. 
937: I encouraged him much. (Use: courage)
a: I gave him so much courage. 
938: We were very grateful to him. (Use: gratitude)
a: We had great gratitude for him.
939: I will never forget the way you helped me today. (Use: remember)
a: I will always remember the way you helped me today. 
940: Everyone wants to be rich. (Use: poor)
a: No one wants to be poor.
941: The culprit was punished. (Use: exonerated)
a: The culprit was not exonerated.
942: His application was accepted. (Use: rejected)
a: His application was not rejected.
943: He was drunk. (Use: sober)
a: He was not sober.
944: I have never visited the place (Use: never)
a: Never have I visited this place.
945: It was only then that I saw him. (Use: only)
a: Only then did I see him.
946: I barely knew it was his plan. (Use: barely)
a: Barely did know it was his plan.
947: Barking dogs seldom bite. (Use: seldom)
a:  Seldom do barking dogs bite.
948: They hardly visit such places. (Use: hardly)
a: Hardly do they visit such places.
